Reason: 
Watch sorted lines by first elements
---------------------
A baseness to write fair and labour'd much
abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;
A bloody deed! almost as bad, good mother,
About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins,
about my heart: but it is no matter.
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
about to say? By the mass, I was about to say
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
A brother's murder. Pray can I not,
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
Abuses me to damn me: I'll have grounds
a carpenter?'
According to the phrase or the addition
A chalice for the nonce, whereon but sipping,
A combination and a form indeed,
a compelled valour, and in the grapple I boarded
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
Addicted so and so:' and there put on him
Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
a difference. There's a daisy: I would give you
admiration? Impart.
admit no discourse to your beauty.
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
A document in madness, thoughts and remembrance fitted.
A double blessing is a double grace,
A dream itself is but a shadow.
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak,
[Advancing] What is he whose grief
A face without a heart?
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it
Affection! pooh! you speak like a green girl,
Affront Ophelia:
A flourish of trumpets, and ordnance shot off, within
after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
After the thing it loves.
afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
against six French swords, their assigns, and three
Against some part of Poland.
against the Danish. Why is this 'imponed,' as you call it?
Against the which, a moiety competent
Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven
Against yourself: I know you are no truant.
a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
A goodly one; in which there are many confines,
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
Ah, ha! Come, some music! come, the recorders!
Ah, ha, boy! say'st thou so? art thou there,
A hit, a very palpable hit.
Ah, my good lord, what have I seen to-night!
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
A king of shreds and patches,--
Alack,
Alack, and fie for shame!
Alack, what noise is this?
Alas, alas!
Alas, he's mad!
Alas, how is't with you,
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
Alas, look here, my lord.
Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
Alas, poor ghost!
Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Alas, then, she is drown'd?
Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is earth; of
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
All
all; believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery.
All flaxen was his poll:
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
All given to mine ear.
All in the morning betime,
All my smooth body.
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like
A ministering angel shall my sister be,
Am I not i' the right, old Jephthah?
A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a
A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
Among a mineral of metals base,
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
A murderer and a villain;
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouthed, to
And I a maid at your window,
And I am sick at heart.
And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
And I beseech you instantly to visit
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
And I do think, or else this brain of mine
And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
And I the matter will re-word; which madness
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
And after we will both our judgments join
And all we mourn for.
And a man's life's no more than to say 'One.'
And am most sensible in grief for it,
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
And, as I think, they have already order
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
And, as the world were now but to begin,
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
And at our more consider'd time well read,
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes?
And bear it to the chapel.
And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
and boy, thirty years.
And break your own neck down.
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
And call it accident.
And call the noblest to the audience.
And can say nothing; no, not for a king,
And can you, by no drift of circumstance,
And carriage of the article design'd,
and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb,
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
And could of men distinguish, her election
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
And do not spread the compost on the weeds,
And do such bitter business as the day
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
And draw you into madness? think of it:
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
and drown him, he drowns not himself: argal, he
and drown himself, it is, will he, nill he, he
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
And dupp'd the chamber-door;
And each particular hair to stand on end,
And either [ ] the devil, or throw him out
And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
And enterprises of great pith and moment
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
And ever three parts coward, I do not know
And fall a-cursing, like a very drab,
And fix'd his eyes upon you?
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
And foreign mart for implements of war;
And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
And, for that purpose, I'll anoint my sword.
And for the day confined to fast in fires,
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
And for your rapier most especially,
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more;
And gather by him, as he is behaved,
And gave you such a masterly report
And gem of all the nation.
and 'gentleman.'
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
And hath abatements and delays as many
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
And hath shipped me intil the land,
And hears it roar beneath.
And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent
And he, repulsed--a short tale to make--
And he to England shall along with you:
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
And his sandal shoon.
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend;
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
And how his audit stands who knows save heaven?
And hurt my brother.
And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
And in his grave rain'd many a tear:--
'And in part him; but' you may say 'not well:
And in part him: ' do you mark this, Reynaldo?
And in the cup an union shall he throw,
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
And in the porches of my ears did pour
And, in this brainish apprehension, kills
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
And it must follow, as the night the day,
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
And lay your hands again upon my sword:
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
And let him know so.
And let him ply his music.
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall,
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
And let them know, both what we mean to do,
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
And let us once again assail your ears,
And liegemen to the Dane.
And, like a man to double business bound,
And like a neutral to his will and matter,
And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
And live the purer with the other half.
And loose your voice: what wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
And makes each petty artery in this body
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
And many such-like 'As'es of great charge,
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
And meant to wreck thee; but, beshrew my jealousy!
And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up:
And more above, hath his solicitings,
and more strange return. '.'
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
And my imaginations are as foul
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
And never come mischance between us twain!
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
And not have strew'd thy grave.
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
And not where I had aim'd them.
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven;
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God be wi' ye.
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
and of very liberal conceit.
And our affairs from England come too late:
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
And passion in the gods.'
And pious action we do sugar o'er
And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
And prey on garbage.
And prologue to the omen coming on,
And put it in his pocket!
and queen moult no feather. I have of late--but
and quickly too. Farewell.
And reason panders will.
And recks not his own rede.
And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
And set a double varnish on the fame
And sets a blister there, makes marriage-vows
And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart;
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
And smelt so? pah!
and so I thank you for your good counsel. Come, my
And so am I revenged. That would be scann'd:
And so have I a noble father lost;
And so, without more circumstance at all,
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
And sure I am two men there are not living
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
And tell you what I know.
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine--
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared him
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
And that I see, in passages of proof,
And that our drift look through our bad performance,
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
And the king's rouse the heavens all bruit again,
And then it started like a guilty thing
And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
And then, they say, no spirit dares stir abroad;
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
and then, you know,
And the queen too, and that presently
And there I see such black and grained spots
And there assume some other horrible form,
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
And these few precepts in thy memory
And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
And they in France of the best rank and station
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me:
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
And thus awhile the fit will work on him;
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And thus o'er-sized with coagulate gore,
And thus the native hue of resolution
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
And thy commandment all alone shall live
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
And, to the last, bended their light on me.
And to the manner born, it is a custom
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
And vanish'd from our sight.
And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And we cast away moan:
And we did think it writ down in our duty
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? Marcellus?
And what's in prayer but this two-fold force,
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
And what's untimely done. O, come away!
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
And when you are desirous to be bless'd,
And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
And where tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd,
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
And will he not come again?
And will he not come again?
And will not let belief take hold of him
And will not wrong it.
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
And with a larger tether may he walk
And with a look so piteous in purport
And with a sudden vigour doth posset
And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd,
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
And with no less nobility of love
And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience,
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
And with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
And, with them, words of so sweet breath composed
And--would it were not so!--you are my mother.
And you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee!
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
And you must put me in your heart for friend,
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
An earnest conjuration from the king,
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
A noise within
Anon, as patient as the female dove,
'Anon he finds him
A Norman.
A Norman was't?
Another hit; what say you?
Answer, and think upon this business.
An thou hadst not come to my bed.
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
An understanding simple and unschool'd:
An you call him a-down-a.
A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! a' poured a
A pick-axe, and a spade, a spade,
A piece of him.
Appears before them, and with solemn march
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
Are here arrived give order that these bodies
Are joyfully return'd.
Are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
Are you fair?
A rhapsody of words: heaven's face doth glow:
Arm'd, my lord.
Arm'd, say you?
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work;
Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay!
As England was his faithful tributary,
As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
As I perceived it, I must tell you that,
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
A sable silver'd.
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
As are companions noted and most known
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
'As by lot, God wot,'
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
A scullion!
As day does to your eye.
As deep as to the lungs? who does me this?
As did that one, and that, in my regard,
A second time I kill my husband dead,
As e'er my conversation coped withal.
A serpent stung me; so the whole ear of Denmark
As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
As fits a king's remembrance.
As from the body of contraction plucks
As gaming, my lord.
As harbingers preceding still the fates
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
As he in his particular act and place
As he is very potent with such spirits,
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so;
As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
Aside
[Aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind.
[Aside] And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
[Aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my
[Aside] It is the poison'd cup: it is too late.
[Aside] Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you
[Aside] O, 'tis too true!
[Aside] Still on my daughter.
[Aside] Though this be madness, yet there is method
[Aside] Wormwood, wormwood.
[Aside to GUILDENSTERN] What say you?
As if I had never been such.
As if he had been loosed out of hell
As if increase of appetite had grown
As if it some impartment did desire
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
As infinite as man may undergo--
As, in their birth--wherein they are not guilty,
A sister driven into desperate terms,
As it behoves my daughter and your honour.
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
As it doth well appear unto our state--
As it hath used to do, that I have found
As it is common for the younger sort
As kill a king!
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
As low as to the fiends!'
As made the things more rich: their perfume lost,
As make your bouts more violent to that end--
As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
As of a father: for let the world take note,
As of a man faithful and honourable.
As oft as any passion under heaven
As one incapable of her own distress,
As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
A station like the herald Mercury
As the indifferent children of the earth.
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
As therein are set down.
As they fell out by time, by means and place,
As thou art to thyself:
As thou'rt a man,
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
As to expend your time with us awhile,
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
As to peace-parted souls.
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working, Mark you,
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
As will not leave their tinct.
As woman's love.
A sword unbated, and in a pass of practise
As you are friends, scholars and soldiers,
At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,'
At 'closes in the consequence,' ay, marry;
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
A thing, my lord!
At his head a grass-green turf,
At his heels a stone.
At home, my lord.
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
At last, a little shaking of mine arm
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
A touch, a touch, I do confess.
A truant disposition, good my lord.
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
At supper.
At supper! where?
Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
A very noble youth: mark.
A very riband in the cap of youth,
A very, very--pajock.
A villain kills my father; and for that,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
Awake the god of day; and, at his warning,
Away, I do beseech you, both away:
Away! for every thing is seal'd and done
A whole one, I.
A whoreson mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends.
Ay, Hamlet.
Ay, amen!
Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverb
Ay, by heaven, my lord.
Ay, fashion you may call it; go to, go to.
Ay, good my lord.
Ay, lady, 'twas my word.
Ay, madam, it is common.
Ay, marry, is't:
Ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
Ay me, what act,
Ay, my good lord.
Ay, my lord;
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord,
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.
Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you
Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Ay, sir, that soaks up the king's countenance, his
Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
Ay, sir, what of him?
Ay, so, God be wi' ye;
Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner
Ay, very well, my lord.
Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
Be all my sins remember'd.
Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come;
Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
Been struck so to the soul that presently
Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
Before my God, I might not this believe
Before my daughter told me--what might you,
Before you visit him, to make inquire
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I
[Behind] O, I am slain!
[Behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Being a thing immortal as itself?
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
Being thus be-netted round with villanies,--
Believe me, I cannot.
Believe so much in him, that he is young
Believe what?
Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
[Beneath] Swear.
[Beneath] Swear.
[Beneath] Swear.
[Beneath] Swear.
Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion
Bernardo?
Bernardo has my place.
Be ruled; you shall not go.
Besides, to be demanded of a sponge! what
Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence;
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Bestow this place on us a little while.
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
Be thou assured, if words be made of breath,
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Between who?
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear:
Be you and I behind an arras then;
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
Both to my God and to my gracious king:
Both your majesties
Bow, stubborn knees; and, heart with strings of steel,
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
Break not your sleeps for that: you must not think
Break we our watch up; and by my advice,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
Bring him before us.
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
But I do prophesy the election lights
But I have that within which passeth show;
But I will delve one yard below their mines,
But age, with his stealing steps,
But answer made it none: yet once methought
But, as we often see, against some storm,
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
But, better look'd into, he truly found
But break, my heart; for I must hold my tongue.
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
But do not go with it.
But even his mother shall uncharge the practise
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
But he's an arrant knave.
But how hath she
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
But, if't be he I mean, he's very wild;
But if the gods themselves did see her then
But, if you hold it fit, after the play
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
But in battalions. First, her father slain:
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
But in the gross and scope of my opinion,
But is this law?
But it reserved some quantity of choice,
But keep a farm and carters.
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
But let me hear from you.
But let that go.
But let this same be presently perform'd,
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
But, look, where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
But, my good lord,--
But never doubt I love.
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
But not by him.
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
But, orderly to end where I begun,
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them:
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
But, sir, such wanton, wild and usual slips
But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king.
But, soft! methinks I scent the morning air;
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
But that I know love is begun by time;
But that the dread of something after death,
But that this folly douts it.
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
But these cannot I command to any utterance of
But this eternal blazon must not be
But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
But to confront the visage of offence?
But to my mind, though I am native here
But to recover of us, by strong hand
But truly, I do fear it.
But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
But virtue, as it never will be moved,
But we both obey,
But we will ship him hence: and this vile deed
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
But what we do determine oft we break.
But where is he?
But where was this?
'But who, O, who had seen the mobled queen--'
But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
But with much forcing of his disposition.
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
But, woe is me, you are so sick of late,
But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my
But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
But you'll be secret?
But, you must know, your father lost a father;
Buys out the law: but 'tis not so above;
Buz, buz!
By Gis and by Saint Charity,
By and by is easily said.
By cock, they are to blame.
By desperate appliance are relieved,
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight,
By his cockle hat and staff,
By indirections find directions out:
By laboursome petition, and at last
By letters congruing to that effect,
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
By this encompassment and drift of question
By what it fed on: and yet, within a month--
Cain's jaw-bone, that did the first murder! It
Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
Calmly, good Laertes.
Came this from Hamlet to her?
Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
Can you advise me?
Capitol; Brutus killed me.
Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
Christian burial.
Christian burial.
Clambering to hang, an envious sliver broke;
Cock crows
Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
Collected from all simples that have virtue
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends;
Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
Come, I will make you way for these your letters;
Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge;
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally;
Come, go with me: I will go seek the king.
Come hither, gentlemen,
Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
Come, let me wipe thy face.
Come, my lord.
Come, one for me.
Come on, sir.
Come on--you hear this fellow in the cellarage--
Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
Come short of what he did.
Come, sirs.
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Come, some music!
Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works:
Conceit upon her father.
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
Consent to swear.
Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows,
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Could not so mope.
Could not, with all their quantity of love,
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
Craves the conveyance of a promised march
Cries cuckold to my father, brands the harlot
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull
Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Danes
Danes
Danes
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet--
Dead.
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:
Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
Denmark, and those that would make mows at him while
Denmark's a prison.
Deprived thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
Devised a new commission, wrote it fair:
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Did he receive you well?
Did nothing.
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets:
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Did you assay him?
Did you not speak to it?
Dies
Dies
Dies
Dies in his own too much: that we would do
Dies not alone; but, like a gulf, doth draw
Directly seasons him his enemy.
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
Does by their own insinuation grow:
Does it not, think'st thee, stand me now upon--
Does not divide the Sunday from the week;
Do, if it will not stand.
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
Do not believe it.
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Do not forget: this visitation
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
Do not, my lord.
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Dost thou hear me, old friend; can you play the
Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i'
Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
Do the boys carry it away?
Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
Doth rend the region, so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Doubt that the sun doth move;
'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
Doubt truth to be a liar;
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
Do you doubt that?
Do you know me, my lord?
Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
Do you see nothing there?
Do you see this, O God?
Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
Do you think I meant country matters?
Do you think 'tis this?
Drabbing: you may go so far.
[Drawing] How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
Drown'd! O, where?
Drown'd, drown'd.
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss:
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
Ecstasy!
E'en so.
E'en so, my lord.
E'en that.
Else could you not have motion; but sure, that sense
England! Farewell, dear mother.
Enter 
Enter 
Enter 
Enter 
Enter a 
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; 
Enter  and 
Enter , , and 
Enter  and , at a distance
Enter another 
Enter four or five Players
Enter , reading
Enter two Players, King and Queen
Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
Even those you were wont to take delight in, the
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Even while men's minds are wild; lest more mischance
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry,--as
Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish: I eat
Excellent well; you are a fishmonger.
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet:
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt all but 
Exeunt all but 
Exeunt all but 
Exeunt all except 
Exeunt  and 
Exeunt , , and Attendants
Exeunt  and GUILDENSTERN
Exeunt Attendants
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
'Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
'Faith, her privates we.
'Faith, no; as you may season it in the charge
'Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and
Fall'n on the inventors' reads: all this can I
Falls and dies
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head,
Farewell!
Farewell.
Farewell, Ophelia; and remember well
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
Fare you well, my dove!
Fare you well, my lord.
fashion, and so berattle the common stages--so they
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
Fear me not: withdraw, I hear him coming.
Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
Fie on't! ah fie! 'tis an unweeded garden,
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! I have heard
find him not there, seek him i' the other place
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
First Ambassador
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Priest
First Priest
first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the
fit.
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
flagon of Rhenish on my head once. This same skull,
Flourish of trumpets within
Folded the writ up in form of the other,
Follow her close; give her good watch,
Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
Follow my mother.
foolish ear.
fool no where but in's own house. Farewell.
For England!
For England.
For God's love, let me hear.
For Hamlet and the trifling of his favour,
For Hecuba!
For if the king like not the comedy,
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
For and a shrouding sheet:
For art and exercise in your defence
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
For, by the image of my cause, I see
Fordo its own life: 'twas of some estate.
'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and
For every man has business and desire,
For food and diet, to some enterprise
For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly,
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
For he himself is subject to his birth:
For her perfections: but my revenge will come.
For he was likely, had he been put on,
For husband shalt thou--
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
For in the fatness of these pursy times
For it is, as the air, invulnerable,
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
For love of God, forbear him.
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
For no man, sir.
For none, neither.
For out o' doors he went without their helps,
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him--
For such a guest is meet.
For such a guest is meet.
For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
For the demand of our neglected tribute
For the supply and profit of our hope,
For they are actions that a man might play:
For this effect defective comes by cause:
For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
For 'tis the sport to have the engineer
For us, and for our tragedy,
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
For what advancement may I hope from thee
For what we know must be and is as common
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
For who, that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
For women's fear and love holds quantity;
For your desire to know what is between us,
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
Friend, look to 't.
Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
Friends to this ground.
From Hamlet! who brought them?
From another one?
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
From me, whose love was of that dignity
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
From that particular fault: the dram of eale
From the fair forehead of an innocent love
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
From top to toe? 
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark,
Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have
Gentlemen,--
Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands,
Gertrude, do not drink.
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
Give first admittance to the ambassadors;
Give him the cup.
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
Give me leave. Here lies the water; good: here
Give me my father!
Give me one poor request.
Give me the cup: let go; by heaven, I'll have't.
Give me your pardon, sir: I've done you wrong;
Given private time to you; and you yourself
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee,
Gives me superfluous death.
Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
Give us the foils. Come on.
Give you good night.
Give you good night.
Giving a paper
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both,
Giving to you no further personal power
Go, bid the soldiers shoot. 
Go, captain, from me greet the Danish king;
God be wi' you; fare you well.
God be wi' you, sir.
God bless you, sir.
God bless you, sir!
God ha' mercy on his soul!
God save you, sir!
God's bodykins, man, much better: use every man
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk'd
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Good.
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you;
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.
Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
Good Laertes,
Good madam!
Good madam, stay awhile; I will be faithful.
Good my lord!
Good my lord,
Good my lord!
Good my lord, be quiet.
Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame and
Good my lord, tell it.
Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? you
Good my lord, will you see the players well
Good night: but go not to mine uncle's bed;
Good night, mother.
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman,'
Good sir, whose powers are these?
Go on; I'll follow thee.
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
Go seek him there.
Go softly on.
Go to.
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Go to thy death-bed:
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel;
Grappling with him
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
Groped I to find out them; had my desire.
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
Ha!
Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
Had it the ability of life to thank you:
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
Had witchcraft in't; he grew unto his seat;
Ha, ha! are you honest?
Hail to your lordship!
Half a share.
Hamlet, Hamlet!
Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake,
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
Hamlet the Dane.
Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,--
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
Haply the seas and countries different
Happily he's the second time come to them; for they
Happy, in that we are not over-happy;
Hark you, Guildenstern; and you too: at each ear a
Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he
Hast ta'en with equal thanks: and blest are those
Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise.
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws,
Hath seal'd thee for herself; for thou hast been
Hath there been such a time--I'd fain know that--
Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
Hautboys play. The dumb-show enters
Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege,
Have after. To what issue will this come?
Have at you now!
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
Have by the very cunning of the scene
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous:
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
Have you forgot me?
Have you had quiet guard?
Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in 't?
Have you so slander any moment leisure,
Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
He.
Hear you, sir;
Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
Heavens make our presence and our practises
Heaven will direct it.
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
He closes with you in this consequence;
He did comply with his dug, before he sucked it.
He digs and sings
He does confess he feels himself distracted;
He does well to commend it himself; there are no
He falls to such perusal of my face
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
He is dead and gone;
He is dead and gone, lady,
He is gone, he is gone,
He is justly served;
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
Help, help, ho!
He made confession of you,
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
He never gave commandment for their death.
He never will come again.
He poisons him i' the garden for's estate. His
He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
Her brother is in secret come from France;
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows;
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Here in the lobby.
Here is your husband; like a mildew'd ear,
Here's a skull now; this skull has lain in the earth
Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
Here stooping to your clemency,
Here's to thy health.
Here, sweet lord, at your service.
Here's yet some liquor left.
Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane,
Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
Her father and myself, lawful espials,
Her maiden strewments and the bringing home
Her mood will needs be pitied.
Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes;
He's fat, and scant of breath.
He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
He's loved of the distracted multitude,
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
He swore, had had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
He takes her up, and declines his head upon her neck: 
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
He that hath kill'd my king and whored my mother,
He that plays the king shall be welcome; his majesty
'He that thou knowest thine, .'
He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
He took my father grossly, full of bread;
He was a man, take him for all in all,
He was the first that ever bore arms.
He waxes desperate with imagination.
He will come straight. Look you lay home to him:
He will stay till ye come.
Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny;
Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.
'High and mighty, You shall know I am set naked on
High on a stage be placed to the view;
Hillo, ho, ho, boy! come, bird, come.
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
His access to me.
His beard was as white as snow,
His beard was grizzled--no?
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
His further gait herein; in that the levies,
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
His liberty is full of threats to all;
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
His means of death, his obscure funeral--
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
His purse is empty already; all's golden words are spent.
His silence will sit drooping.
Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.
Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
Hold off your hands.
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
Hold you the watch to-night?
Holla! Bernardo!
Honest, my lord!
Honour'd, beloved; and haply one as kind
Horatio,--or I do forget myself.
Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Horatio, these three years I have taken a note of
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
How absolute the knave is! we must speak by the
How all occasions do inform against me,
How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
How came he mad?
How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her
How can that be, when you have the voice of the king
How chances it they travel? their residence, both
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
How comes it? do they grow rusty?
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
How does the queen?
How does your honour for this many a day?
How do you, pretty lady?
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
How fares my lord?
How fares our cousin Hamlet?
How if I answer 'no'?
How in my words soever she be shent,
How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
How is it with you, lady?
How is't, Laertes?
How is't, my noble lord?
How long hath she been thus?
How long is that since?
How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
How may we try it further?
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
How now, Horatio! you tremble and look pale:
How now, Ophelia!
How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
How now, sweet queen!
How now! what hath befall'n?
How now! what news?
How now! what noise is that?
How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness
How purposed, sir, I pray you?
How say you, then; would heart of man once think it?
How should I your true love know
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
How strangely?
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
How these things came about: so shall you hear
How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
How was this seal'd?
How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
I alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is
I am constant to my purpose; they follow the king's
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a
I am glad to see you well:
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane:
I am satisfied in nature,
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
I am tame, sir: pronounce.
I am thy father's spirit,
I am very glad to see you. Good even, sir.
I beseech you.
I beseech you, remember--
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
I can no more: the king, the king's to blame.
I cannot dream of: I entreat you both,
I cannot live to hear the news from England;
I commend my duty to your lordship.
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
I could interpret between you and your love, if I
I could not but by her. The other motive,
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with
I dare not drink yet, madam; by and by.
I did enact Julius Caesar: I was killed i' the
I did repel his fetters and denied
I did very well note him.
I do believe you think what now you speak;
I do beseech you.
I do beseech you, give him leave to go.
I do not fear it; I have seen you both:
I do not know from what part of the world
I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
I do not set my life in a pin's fee;
I do not think so: since he went into France, I
I do not think't.
I do not well understand that. Will you play upon
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
I do repent: but heaven hath pleased it so,
I doubt it is no other but the main;
I doubt some foul play: would the night were come!
I embrace it freely;
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
I' faith, if he be not rotten before he die--as we
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
If by direct or by collateral hand
If circumstances lead me, I will find
If damned custom have not brass'd it so
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
If his chief good and market of his time
I find thee apt;
If it assume my noble father's person,
If it be,
If it be made of penetrable stuff,
If it be so, Laertes--
If it be so, as so 'tis put on me,
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation,
If she should break it now!
If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
If 't be the affliction of his love or no
If that his majesty would aught with us,
If there be any good thing to be done,
If this should blast in proof. Soft! let me see:
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter
If you desire to know the certainty
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
If your mind dislike any thing, obey it: I will
I had forgot: 'tis so concluded on.
I had my father's signet in my purse,
I had not quoted him: I fear'd he did but trifle,
I have a daughter--have while she is mine--
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze,
I have a voice and precedent of peace,
I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God
I have in quick determination
I have, my lord.
I have not art to reckon my groans: but that
I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet; these words
I have seen nothing.
I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
I have sworn 't.
I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
I hear him coming: let's withdraw, my lord.
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
I hold my duty, as I hold my soul,
I hope all will be well. We must be patient: but I
I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us,
I humbly thank you, sir. Dost know this water-fly?
I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.
I know him well: he is the brooch indeed
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
I know no touch of it, my lord.
I know the good king and queen have sent for you.
I know you are not ignorant--
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows
I'll be with you straight go a little before.
I'll be your foil, Laertes: in mine ignorance
I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord,
I'll board him presently.
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed,
I'll cross it, though it blast me. Stay, illusion!
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens! die two
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.
I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile. Come.
I'll rant as well as thou.
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
I'll tent him to the quick: if he but blench,
I'll visit you.
I'll warrant you,
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
I loved Ophelia: forty thousand brothers
I loved you ever: but it is no matter;
I loved your father, and we love ourself;
I love thee best, O most best, believe it. Adieu.
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
I mean, my head upon your lap?
I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation
I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
I'm lost in it, my lord. But let him come;
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
Importing the surrender of those lands
I'm sorry they offend you, heartily;
I must be cruel, only to be kind:
I must to England; you know that?
In censure of his seeming.
Indeed? I heard it not: then it draws near the season
Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't:
Indeed, my lord, it follow'd hard upon.
Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
Indeed, that is out o' the air.
Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
In dreadful secrecy impart they did;
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
I never gave you aught.
In faith,
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
In filial obligation for some term
In further evil?
In general synod 'take away her power;
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
In happy time.
In heaven; send hither to see: if your messenger
'In her excellent white bosom, these, & c.'
In his true nature; and we ourselves compell'd,
In honourable fashion.
In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
In my mind's eye, Horatio.
In neither aught, or in extremity.
In noise so rude against me?
In obstinate condolement is a course
Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
In second husband let me be accurst!
In that and all things will we show our duty.
In the corrupted currents of this world
In the dead vast and middle of the night,
In thee there is not half an hour of life;
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
In the same figure, like the king that's dead.
In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she
In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes,
In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
Into a towering passion.
Into my grave.
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
In what, my dear lord?
In what particular thought to work I know not;
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
In youth, when I did love, did love,
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
I pray thee, do not mock me, fellow-student;
I pray thee, stay with us; go not to Wittenberg.
I pray you.
I pray you.
I pray you, give me leave.
I pray you, good Horatio, wait upon him.
I pray you, go with me.
I pray you, now receive them.
I pray you, pass with your best violence;
I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat;
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
I saw him once; he was a goodly king.
I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
I say, away! Go on; I'll follow thee.
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Is by a forged process of my death
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
I see a cherub that sees them. But, come; for
I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
I shall, my lord.
I shall not look upon his like again.
I shall obey, my lord.
I shall obey you.
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep,
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
I should have fatted all the region kites
Is in his retirement marvellous distempered.
Is it a custom?
Is it not like the king?
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
Is it the king?
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Is not to stir without great argument,
Is now most still, most secret and most grave,
Is she to be buried in Christian burial that
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
I stand aloof; and will no reconcilement,
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
I stay too long: but here my father comes.
Is the great love the general gender bear him;
Is the main motive of our preparations,
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
Is thought-sick at the act.
Is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
Is't possible?
Is't possible?
Is very cunning in.
It beckons you to go away with it,
'It came to pass, as most like it was,'--
It could not move thus.
It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
I tell thee she is: and therefore make her grave
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
It falls right.
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
It had been so with us, had we been there:
I thank you: keep the door. O thou vile king,
I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who's there?
I think it be no other but e'en so:
I think it be thine, indeed; for thou liest in't.
I think it lacks of twelve.
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
I think nothing, my lord.
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
It is 'Adieu, adieu! remember me.'
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
It is a nipping and an eager air.
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
It is backed like a weasel.
It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of
It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
It is most retrograde to our desire:
It is not nor it cannot come to good:
It is not very strange; for mine uncle is king of
It is offended.
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
It lifted up its head and did address
It likes us well;
It may be death.
It may be, very likely.
It might, my lord.
It must be 'se offendendo;' it cannot be else. For
It must be shortly known to him from England
I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune;
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
It sends some precious instance of itself
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
It shall do well: but yet do I believe
It shall to the barber's, with your beard. Prithee,
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
It warms the very sickness in my heart,
It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf
It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
It was, as I have seen it in his life,
It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
It waves me still.
It waves you to a more removed ground:
It well appears: but tell me
It will be laid to us, whose providence
It will be short: the interim is mine;
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
It will not speak; then I will follow it.
It would be spoke to.
It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
It would have much amazed you.
I understand you not, my lord.
I've seen myself, and served against, the French,
I warrant it will.
I warrant your honour.
I was the more deceived.
I will.
I will be brief: your noble son is mad:
I will bestow him, and will answer well
I will do't:
I will do't, my lord.
I will, my lord.
I will, my lord; I pray you, pardon me.
I will not speak with her.
I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players;
I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well:
I will say so.
I will speak daggers to her, but use none;
I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
I will watch to-night;
I would I had been there.
I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
I would know that.
I would not hear your enemy say so,
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth,
I would set down and insert in't, could you not?
I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did,
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
Judgment.
Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
King, father, royal Dane: O, answer me!
Know you the hand?
Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
'Laertes shall be king, Laertes king!'
Laertes, was your father dear to you?
Laertes, you shall hear them. Leave us.
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
Larded with sweet flowers
Last, and as much containing as all these,
Last night of all,
Lay her i' the earth:
Lay not that mattering unction to your soul,
Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
Madam, I wish it may.
Madam, how like you this play?
Madam, it so fell out, that certain players
Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
Mad for thy love?
Mad let us grant him, then: and now remains
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will.
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
Makes a pass through the arras
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
Makes us traduced and tax'd of other nations:
Makes vow before his uncle never more
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseased: but,
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
Making night hideous; and we fools of nature
Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch,
March afar off, and shot within
March within
Mark me.
Mark the encounter: if he love her not
Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby;
Marry, now I can tell.
Marry, sir, here's my drift;
Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.
Marry, well bethought:
Marry, well said; very well said. Look you, sir,
Mass, I cannot tell.
May be the devil: and the devil hath power
May do, to express his love and friending to you,
May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
May give his saying deed; which is no further
May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
May sweep to my revenge.
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
Meet what I would have well and it destroy!
Messenger
Messenger
Methinks it is like a weasel.
Methought it was very sweet,
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away:
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
Mine, sir.
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
Nay, I know not:
Nay, I know not.
Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.
Nay, but, Ophelia,--
Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--
Nay, but swear't.
Nay, but to live
Nay, come, again.
Nay, come, let's go together.
Nay, do not think I flatter;
Nay, good my lord,--
Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith.
Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right
Nay, let's follow him.
Nay, that follows not.
Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but
Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.
Nay, very pale.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
Neither, my lord.
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
Never believe it:
Never departed more.
Never make known what you have seen to-night.
Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
Never to speak of this that you have heard,
Never to speak of this that you have seen,
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
Next, your son gone; and he most violent author
Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
No.
No!
No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is
No, by no means.
No, by the rood, not so:
No, by this hand.
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with
No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.
No hat upon his head; his stockings foul'd,
No, indeed, are they not.
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
Noise within
No, it is struck.
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day,
No, let's come in.
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
No medicine in the world can do thee good;
No more!
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
No more be done:
No more but so?
No more, sweet Hamlet!
No more to undertake it, I will work him
No, my good lord.
No, my good lord, but, as you did command,
No, my lord.
No, my lord, rather with choler.
None but his enemies.
None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
None wed the second but who kill'd the first.
No noble rite nor formal ostentation--
No, no, he is dead:
No, nor mine now.
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
No, not I;
No, no, the drink, the drink,--O my dear Hamlet,--
No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest; no offence
No, nothing but ourselves.
No, not to stay the grinding of the axe,
No place, indeed, should murder sanctuarize;
Nor I, my lord.
Nor I, my lord, in faith.
Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
Nor did you nothing hear?
Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light!
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thrall'd
Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
Nor the soles of her shoe?
Nor thine on me.
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest
Not I, my lord.
Not I, my lord, by heaven.
Not a jot more, my lord.
Not a mouse stirring.
Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special
Not from his mouth,
Nothing.
Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
Nothing, neither way.
Not of that dye which their investments show,
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
Not shriving-time allow'd.
Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun.
Not that I know.
Not that I think you did not love your father;
Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
Not when I saw't.
Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certain
Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
Now I am alone.
Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
Now falls on Priam.
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
Now is he total gules; horridly trick'd
Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
Now, mother, what's the matter?
Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal,
Now, out of this,--
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
'Now the king dunks to Hamlet.' Come, begin:
Now wears his crown.
Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
No; you'll reveal it.
O Gertrude, come away!
O God!
O God, I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
O, God! a beast, that wants discourse of reason,
O God, your only jig-maker. What should a man do
O Hamlet, speak no more:
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there!
O, I die, Horatio;
O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
O, a pit of clay for to be made
O, a pit of clay for to be made
Observe his inclination in yourself.
Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
O, but she'll keep her word.
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
O, confound the rest!
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers;
O'erbears your officers. The rabble call him lord;
O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
Of Hamlet's transformation; so call it,
Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
Of Laertes?
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
O, farewell, honest soldier:
Of bell and burial.
Of blue Olympus.
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples
Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
O, fear me not.
Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
Of general assault.
Of habits devil, is angel yet in this,
Of him, sir.
Of him that brought them.
Of his affection to me.
Of his behavior.
Of his own just remove: the people muddied,
Of his true state.
Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd:
Of man and country.
Of mighty opposites.
Of mine own eyes.
Of my true mother.
Of nothing: bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
O, for two special reasons;
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
Of these delated articles allow.
Of the unworthiest siege.
Of thinking too precisely on the event,
Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
Of those effects for which I did the murder,
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
O, give me leave:
O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a
O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt,
O heavenly powers, restore him!
O heavens! is't possible, a young maid's wits
O heavy burthen!
O heavy deed!
O, he is mad, Laertes.
O, help him, you sweet heavens!
O, here they come.
O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
O, how the wheel becomes it! It is the false
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
O, methought, there was nothing meet.
O me, what hast thou done?
O most pernicious woman!
O, my dear lord,--
O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too
O, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
O, my offence is rank it smells to heaven;
O my prophetic soul! My uncle!
O my son, what theme?
On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys;
On Mars's armour forged for proof eterne
One.
'One fair daughter and no more,
One scene of it comes near the circumstance
One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
One word more, good lady.
On fortune's cap we are not the very button.
On him, on him! Look you, how pale he glares!
On plots and errors, happen.
On such regards of safety and allowance
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
Ophelia, walk you here. Gracious, so please you,
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
Or for some frontier?
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed;
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
Or like a creature native and indued
Or like a whale?
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight;
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
Or not at all.
Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Or of a courtier; which could say 'Good morrow,
O royal knavery!--an exact command,
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say,
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
O, speak of that; that do I long to hear.
O, speak to me no more;
Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in
O, step between her and her fighting soul:
O, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
O, that this too too solid flesh would melt
O, the recorders! let me see one. To withdraw with
O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
O, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
O, throw away the worser part of it,
O, treble woe
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
Our duty to your honour.
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
Our purpose may hold there.
Our son shall win.
Our sovereign process; which imports at full,
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Out of his lunacies.
Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
O, vengeance!
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
Over the nasty sty,--
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
O, wonderful!
O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother! But
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
O, yes, my lord; he wore his beaver up.
O, yet defend me, friends; I am but hurt.
POLONIUS hides behind the arras
Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
Pale or red?
Part them; they are incensed.
Passing through nature to eternity.
Pays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly set
Peace, break thee off; look, where it comes again!
Peace! who comes here?
Perchance 'twill walk again.
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
Player King
Player King
Player King
Player King
Player Queen
Player Queen
Player Queen
Player Queen
Play something like the murder of my father
Pleasant and helpful to him!
Plucks off my beard, and blows it in my face?
Pluck them asunder.
Pointing to POLONIUS
[Pointing to his head and shoulder]
Popp'd in between the election and my hopes,
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
Pours the poison into the sleeper's ears
Pray you, be round with him.
Pray you, let's have no words of this; but when they
Pray you, mark.
Pretty Ophelia!
Priam's slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin
Prison, my lord!
Prologue
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
Propose the oath, my lord.
Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
Pursued my life.
Puts down the skull
Put your dread pleasures more into command
Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
Question it, Horatio.
Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
Rankly abused: but know, thou noble youth,
Rapier and dagger.
Read on this book;
Reads
Reads
Reads
[Reads] 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlooked
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Received his love?
Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
Re-enter 
Re-enter 
Re-enter Players with recorders
Remember it, my lord?
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
Repast them with my blood.
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
Requite him for your father.
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.
Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
Retiring with 
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
Richer than that which four successive kings
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
[Rising] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below:
Rough-hew them how we will,--
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
'Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames
Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not:
Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.
Save me, and hover o'er me with your wings,
Save yourself, my lord:
Saw? who?
Say,
Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
Say you? nay, pray you, mark.
Say you so? come on.
'Sblood, there is something in this more than
Scattering flowers
Scripture? The Scripture says 'Adam digged:'
Season your admiration for awhile
Second Clown
See, it stalks away!
Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
Seems, madam! nay it is; I know not 'seems.'
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
See, what a grace was seated on this brow;
See you now;
Set me the stoops of wine upon that table.
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Shall in the general censure take corruption
Shall I re-deliver you e'en so?
Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her;
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
She desires to speak with you in her closet, ere you
She is importunate, indeed distract:
She kneels, and makes show of protestation unto him.
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
She should in ground unsanctified have lodged
She speaks much of her father; says she hears
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul,
She swounds to see them bleed.
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
She well instructs me.
Should be as moral as an old man's life?
Should have a back or second, that might hold,
Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw!
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven;
Shows itself pure; he weeps for what is done.
Since frost itself as actively doth burn
Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
Since nature cannot choose his origin--
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
Sings
Sings
Sings
Sings
Sings
Sings
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
Sir?
Sir, I cannot.
Sir, I lack advancement.
Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his
Sir, a whole history.
Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes; believe
Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you;
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting,
Sir, in this audience,
Sir, my good friend; I'll change that name with you:
Sit down awhile;
Sith I have cause and will and strength and means
Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
Slanders, sir: for the satirical rogue says here
Sleep rock thy brain,
Sleeps
So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.
So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
So be it!
So bloodily hast struck?
So by his father lost: and this, I take it,
So by my former lecture and advice,
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
So excellent a king; that was, to this,
So far from cheer and from your former state,
So fast they follow; your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
So frown'd he once, when, in an angry parle,
So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
So, gentlemen,
So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
So have I heard and do in part believe it.
So he does indeed.
So horridly to shake our disposition
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
So levied as before, against the Polack:
So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
So many journeys may the sun and moon
Some little time: so by your companies
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
So much as from occasion you may glean,
So much for this, sir: now shall you see the other;
So much from the understanding of himself,
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
So, oft it chances in particular men,
So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
So, proceed you.
So runs the world away.
So tell him, with the occurrents, more and less,
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;
So you shall;
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
Speak; I am bound to hear.
Speak loudly for him.
Speak, man.
Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to
Speak to her, Hamlet.
Speak to me:
Speak to me:
Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
Sprinkle cool patience. Whereon do you look?
Sprung from neglected love. How now, Ophelia!
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
Stabs 
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
Stay; give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee, speak!
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Stick fiery off indeed.
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Still better, and worse.
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech;
Striking too short at Greeks; his antique sword,
Subscribed it, gave't the impression, placed it safely,
Such an act
Such as it is; and for mine own poor part,
Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
Such was the very armour he had on
Sure, he that made us with such large discourse,
Swear by my sword.
Swear by my sword.
Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I
Sweets to the sweet: farewell!
'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be
'Swounds, show me what thou'lt do:
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for, lo! his sword,
Takes the skull
Take them in.
Take these again; for to the noble mind
Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
Take thy fair hour, Laertes; time be thine,
Take up the bodies: such a sight as this
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
Tell him that, by his licence, Fortinbras
Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Than is my deed to my most painted word:
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
Than I to Hercules: within a month:
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz:
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
Thanks, dear my lord.
Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
Than that which dearest father bears his son,
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Than to entreaty.
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
Than your particular demands will touch it:
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
That I can keep your counsel and not mine own.
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
That I essentially am not in madness,
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
That I have longed long to re-deliver;
That I have positively said 'Tis so,'
That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house,
That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
That I might be the organ.
That I must be their scourge and minister.
That I must call't in question.
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
That I will speak to thee: I'll call thee Hamlet,
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
That are so fortified against our story
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That, being of so young days brought up with him,
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
That both the worlds I give to negligence,
That can I;
That can denote me truly: these indeed seem,
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
That capability and god-like reason
That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
That did I, my lord; and was accounted a good actor.
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard,
That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
That ever I was born to set it right!
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
That, for a fantasy and trick of fame,
That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
That from her working all his visage wann'd,
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
That guilty creatures sitting at a play
That has no relish of salvation in't;
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other--
That hath in it no profit but the name.
That hath made him mad.
That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
That he cried out, 'twould be a sight indeed,
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
That he is open to incontinency;
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
That he which hath your noble father slain
That hurts by easing. But, to the quick o' the ulcer:--
That if again this apparition come,
That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
That is Laertes,
That is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
That is most certain.
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
That it might please you to give quiet pass
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
That lend a tyrannous and damned light
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
That live and feed upon your majesty.
That looks so many fathoms to the sea
That makes calamity of so long life;
That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
That might your nature, honour and exception
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits,
That not your trespass, but my madness speaks:
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
That our devices still are overthrown;
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?
That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is
That's good; 'mobled queen' is good.
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
That she should lock herself from his resort,
That show of such an exercise may colour
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once:
That's not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly
That so his sickness, age and impotence
That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest
That's two of his weapons: but, well.
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
That's very true, my lord.
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel
That thou so many princes at a shot
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
That thus he suffers for.
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
That to Laertes I forgot myself;
That to the use of actions fair and good
That treason can but peep to what it would,
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
That was and is the question of these wars.
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
That we can let our beard be shook with danger
That we find out the cause of this effect,
That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
That you know aught of me: this not to do,
That you must teach me. But let me conjure you, by
That your good beauties be the happy cause
That youth and observation copied there;
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
The Frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together
The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play
The Poisoner, with some two or three Mutes, 
The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts: 
The Queen returns; finds the King dead, and makes passionate action. 
The actors are come hither, my lord.
The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
The ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
The apparition comes: I knew your father;
The associates tend, and every thing is bent
The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave
The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
The bell then beating one,--
The best actors in the world, either for tragedy,
The better to beguile. This is for all:
The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
The body is with the king, but the king is not with
The bold winds speechless and the orb below
The canker galls the infants of the spring,
The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth,
The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
The concernancy, sir? why do we wrap the gentleman
The corse they follow did with desperate hand
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue, sword;
The dead body is carried away. 
The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
The devil himself.
The devil take thy soul!
The doors are broke.
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
The effect of what I wrote?
The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
The extravagant and erring spirit hies
The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
The form of plausive manners, that these men,
The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
The hart ungalled play;
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
The head is not more native to the heart,
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
The imminent death of twenty thousand men,
The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
The insolence of office and the spurns
The instances that second marriage move
The instant burst of clamour that she made,
The inward service of the mind and soul
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,--
Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
The king and queen and all are coming down.
The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
The king my father!
The king rises.
The king shall drink to Hamlet's better breath;
The king, sir,--
The king, sir, hath laid, that in a dozen passes
The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
The lady protests too much, methinks.
The leperous distilment; whose effect
The light and careless livery that it wears
The lists and full proportions, are all made
The lives of many. The cease of majesty
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
'The mobled queen?'
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
Then is doomsday near: but your news is not true.
Then is the world one.
Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
Then I would you were so honest a man.
Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
Then came each actor on his ass,--
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
The need we have to use you did provoke
The nephews to old Norway, Fortinbras.
Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
Then saw you not his face?
Then thus she says; your behavior hath struck her
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Then up he rose, and donn'd his clothes,
Then, venom, to thy work.
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain,
Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of
The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
The origin and commencement of his grief
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more.
The phrase would be more german to the matter, if we
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
The point!--envenom'd too!
The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
The queen desires you to use some gentle
The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of
The rather, if you could devise it so
The ratifiers and props of every word,
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
There are the players. 
There falling out at tennis:' or perchance,
Therefore I have entreated him along
Therefore let's follow.
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
There is a play to-night before the king;
There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
There is no shuffling, there the action lies
There lives within the very flame of love
There, my lord.
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
There, on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
There's another: why may not that be the skull of a
There's fennel for you, and columbines: there's rue
There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
There's matter in these sighs, these profound heaves:
There's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark
There's no offence, my lord.
There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; pray,
There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
There's tricks i' the world; and hems, and beats her heart;
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
There was a' gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
There with fantastic garlands did she come
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
'The rugged Pyrrhus, like the Hyrcanian beast,'--
The safety and health of this whole state;
The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
These hands are not more like.
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
These tedious old fools!
These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears;
The sight is dismal;
The single and peculiar life is bound,
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
The source of this our watch and the chief head
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege:
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch,
The tedious day with sleep.
The terms of our estate may not endure
The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
The time invites you; go; your servants tend.
The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
The triumph of his pledge.
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
The unseen good old man.
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
The very place puts toys of desperation,
The very same.
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
The violence of either grief or joy
The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
The which he loved passing well.'
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen:
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord:
They are coming to the play; I must be idle:
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
They are of Norway, sir.
They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way,
They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
They bore him barefaced on the bier;
They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
They had begun the play--I sat me down,
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
They play
They play
They play
They prepare to play
They retire without the door
They shall go far with little.
They swear
They were given me by Claudio; he received them
Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
'Thine evermore most dear lady, whilst
Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
Think it no more;
This?
This above all: to thine ownself be true,
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
This bodiless creation ecstasy
This business is well ended.
This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
This grave shall have a living monument:
This heavy-headed revel east and west
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
This is mere madness:
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
This is the very ecstasy of love,
This is too heavy, let me see another.
This is too long.
This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
This mad young man: but so much was our love,
This man shall set me packing:
This marvel to you.
This must be known; which, being kept close, might
'This must be so.' We pray you, throw to earth
This must not be:' and then I precepts gave her,
This night to play before him.
This nothing's more than matter.
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
This presence knows,
This present object made probation.
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
This realm dismantled was
This something-settled matter in his heart,
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
This sudden sending him away must seem
This the very coinage of your brain:
This to your majesty; this to the queen.
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
This warlike volley.
This was your husband. Look you now, what follows:
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Thou comest in such a questionable shape
'Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine:
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Though inclination be as sharp as will:
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
Thou know'st already.
Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
Thou pray'st not well.
Thou still hast been the father of good news.
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul;
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
Throws up another skull
Throws up a skull
Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
'Thus didest thou.'
Thus has he--and many more of the same bevy that I
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England,
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Thy knotted and combined locks to part
Thy loving father, Hamlet.
Thy natural magic and dire property,
Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
Till by some elder masters, of known honour,
Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Till the last trumpet: for charitable prayers,
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
'Tis Hamlets character. 'Naked!
'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away gain, from me to
'Tis as easy as lying: govern these ventages with
'Tis brief, my lord.
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile;
'Tis e'en so: the hand of little employment hath
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
Tis gone!
Tis gone, and will not answer.
'Tis heavy with him: and am I then revenged,
Tis here!
Tis here!
'Tis in my memory lock'd,
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
'Tis most true:
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
Tis now struck twelve; get thee to bed, Francisco.
Tis now the very witching time of night,
'Tis strange.
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
'Tis told me, he hath very oft of late
'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
'Tis very strange.
'Tis well: I'll have thee speak out the rest soon.
To 
To England send him, or confine him where
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
[To ] O, ho! do you mark that?
To all that fortune, death and danger dare,
To an exploit, now ripe in my device,
To any pastime?
To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
To be commanded.
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
To be, or not to be, that is the question,
To be your Valentine.
To both your honours.
To business with the king, more than the scope
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
To cast thee up again. What may this mean,
To contract, O, the time, for, ah, my behove,
To cut his throat i' the church.
To desperation turn my trust and hope!
To do obsequious sorrow: but to persever
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me:
To draw apart the body he hath kill'd:
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Together with that fair and warlike form
To give in evidence. What then? what rests?
To give it due content.
To give the assay of arms against your majesty.
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
To give these mourning duties to your father:
To give the world assurance of a man:
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
To have proved most royally: and, for his passage,
To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
To hear and see the matter.
To hear him so inclined.
To hear of it: they are about the court,
To hear the process; and warrant she'll tax him home:
To heaven.
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
To him from whom you brought them.
To his confine: and of the truth herein
To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms;
To his own scandal.
To his unmaster'd importunity.
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
To keep my name ungored. But till that time,
To keep those many many bodies safe
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
To lay our service freely at your feet,
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
To let this canker of our nature come
To let you know of it.
To make it truster of your own report
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
To mine own room again; making so bold,
To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
To muddy death.
To my revenge: but in my terms of honour
To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
To o'ertop old Pelion, or the skyish head
To offer it the show of violence;
Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once!
To punish me with this and this with me,
To put an antic disposition on,
To quit him with this arm? and is't not to be damn'd,
To reason most absurd: whose common theme
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
To show his grief: let her be round with him;
To show my duty in your coronation,
To show us so much gentry and good will
To show yourself your father's son in deed
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
To some Attendants
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
To speak of horrors,--he comes before me.
To't.
To take him in the purging of his soul,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
To tell my story.
To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
To tell us this.
To the ambassadors of England gives
'To the celestial and my soul's idol, the most
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
To their lord's murder: roasted in wrath and fire,
To the next abstinence: the next more easy;
To the unsatisfied.
To thine own peace. If he be now return'd,
To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.
To those of mine!
To try conclusions, in the basket creep,
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
To what I shall unfold.
To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may
To what end, my lord?
To whom do you speak this?
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
To you alone.
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
To youth and liberty.
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
Treachery! Seek it out.
Treason! treason!
Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a
Truly deliver.
Truly to speak, and with no addition,
Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within
Try what repentance can: what can it not?
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
'Twere better not assay'd: therefore this project
'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
'Twill, a not be seen in him there; there the men
Two nights together had these gentlemen,
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Unbated and envenom'd: the foul practise
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle;
Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
Unless things mortal move them not at all,
Unmix'd with baser matter: yes, by heaven!
Unpeg the basket on the house's top.
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
Unto that element: but long it could not be
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
Up from my cabin,
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard,
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
Upon mine honour,--
Upon my life, Lamond.
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
Upon my sword.
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Upon the talk of the poisoning?
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Upon what ground?
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
Upon whose property and most dear life
Up, sword; and know thou a more horrid hent:
Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less
Very good, my lord.
Very like a whale.
Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
Very strangely, they say.
Very well. Follow that lord; and look you mock him
Very well, my lord
Very well, my lord.
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg,
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
Was he a gentleman?
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul,
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
We beg your hearing patiently.
We cannot get from him.
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
We do, my lord.
We doubt it nothing: heartily farewell.
We go to gain a little patch of ground
We have sworn, my lord, already.
We heard it all. My lord, do as you please;
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
Welcome, Horatio: welcome, good Marcellus.
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
Welcome, my good friends!
Well, God-a-mercy.
Well, God 'ild you! They say the owl was a baker's
Well; again.
Well be with you, gentlemen!
Well, good night.
We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need,
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings: I ha't.
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Well, my lord:
Well, my lord.
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
We'll put the matter to the present push.
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
Well said, old mole! canst work i' the earth so fast?
Well, sit we down,
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
We'll wait upon you.
Well, we shall sift him.
We may of their encounter frankly judge,
We must, with all our majesty and skill,
We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him;
Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
We shall express our duty in his eye;
We shall know by this fellow: the players cannot
We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
We should profane the service of the dead
We think not so, my lord.
We will bestow ourselves.
We will, my lord.
We will ourselves provide:
We will try it.
We will, we will.
We would not understand what was most fit;
What?
What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
What I have said to you.
What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
What, are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
What are they that would speak with me?
What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the
What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
What a treasure had he, my lord?
What call you the carriages?
What ceremony else?
What ceremony else?
What company, at what expense; and finding
What did you enact?
What does this mean, my lord?
What dost you mean by this?
What do you call the play?
What do you read, my lord?
What do you think of me?
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
What follows, then, my lord?
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
What, frighted with false fire!
What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
What have I done, that thou darest wag thy tongue
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
What ho! Horatio!
What hour now?
What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
What imports the nomination of this gentleman?
What is he that builds stronger than either the
What, is Horatio there?
What is between you? give me up the truth.
What is it ye would see?
What is, my lord?
What is't, Ophelia, be hath said to you?
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
What is the cause, Laertes,
What is the issue of the business there.
What is the matter?
What is the matter, my lord?
What is the reason that you use me thus?
What is't, my lord? we will.
What, look'd he frowningly?
What majesty should be, what duty is,
What man dost thou dig it for?
What means this, my lord?
What means your lordship?
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
What might you think? No, I went round to work,
What, my lord?
What news, my lord?
What noise? who calls on Hamlet?
What out of this, my lord?
What part is that, my lord?
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
What said he?
What shall I do?
What's his weapon?
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
What should we say, my lord?
What's near it with it: it is a massy wheel,
What speech, my lord?
What's that, my lord?
What's the matter now?
What, the fair Ophelia!
What think you on't?
What thou hast said to me.
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
What warlike noise is this?
What we have two nights seen.
What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me?
What woman, then?
What would she have?
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out
When down her weedy trophies and herself
When he himself might his quietus make
When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
When he the ambitious Norway combated;
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
When in one line two crafts directly meet.
When in your motion you are hot and dry--
When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
When it proved otherwise?
When our deep plots do pall: and that should teach us
When second husband kisses me in bed.
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
When sorrows come, they come not single spies
When that her golden couplets are disclosed,
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
When thou liest howling.
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
When we would bring him on to some confession
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
Where every god did seem to set his seal,
Wherefore should you do this?
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Where is Polonius?
Where is my father?
Where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark?
Where is this king? Sirs, stand you all without.
Where is this sight?
Where is your son?
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Where, my lord?
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Where should we have our thanks?
Where's your father?
Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
Where we shall find him most conveniently.
Where wilt thou lead me? speak; I'll go no further.
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
Which I have told thee of my father's death:
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures
Which bewept to the grave did go
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice;
Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very
Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror:
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit,
Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Which now goes too free-footed.
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes;
Which was declining on the milky head
Which was the model of that Danish seal;
Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
Whips out his rapier, cries, 'A rat, a rat!'
White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
Who, I?
'Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Who commands them, sir?
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
Who hath relieved you?
Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
Who is to be buried in't?
Who is't that can inform me?
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Whose motive, in this case, should stir me most
Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd
Whose violent property fordoes itself
Whose was it?
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Who shall stay you?
Who's there?
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
Who was in life a foolish prating knave.
Why?
Why,
Why,
Why I will fight with him upon this theme
Why, any thing, but to the purpose. You were sent
Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric;
Why ask you this?
Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits
Why day is day, night night, and time is time,
Why did you laugh then, when I said 'man delights not me'?
Why does the drum come hither?
Why, e'en so: and now my Lady Worm's; chapless, and
Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
Why, he had none.
Why he more than another?
Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
Why, how now, Hamlet!
Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of
Why, look you there! look, how it steals away!
Why, man, they did make love to this employment;
Why, now you speak
Why, right; you are i' the right;
Why seems it so particular with thee?
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Why the man dies. I humbly thank you, sir.
Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
Why, then, 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
Why then, your ambition makes it one; 'tis too
Why, there thou say'st: and the more pity that
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply:
Why, 'tis found so.
Why to a public count I might not go,
Why, what a king is this!
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
Why, what should be the fear?
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
Why you proceeded not against these feats,
Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
Will he tell us what this show meant?
Will not debate the question of this straw:
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
Will not peruse the foils; so that, with ease,
Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
Will want true colour; tears perchance for blood.
Will you be ruled by me?
Will you do this, keep close within your chamber.
Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been
Will you know them then?
Will you two help to hasten them?
Wilt please you go, my lord?
Winner and loser?
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
With all my heart; and it doth much content me
With all my imperfections on my head:
With all my love I do commend me to you:
With all the strength and armour of the mind,
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
With arms encumber'd thus, or this headshake,
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
With drink, sir?
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;
With forms to his conceit? and all for nothing!
With heraldry more dismal; head to foot
With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,
[Within] Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
[Within] Heaven secure him!
[Within] Hillo, ho, ho, my lord!
[Within] Let her come in.
[Within] Lord Hamlet,--
[Within] Mother, mother, mother!
[Within] My lord, my lord,--
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distilled
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Within the centre.
With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
Without debatement further, more or less,
Without more motive, into every brain
Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Without the sensible and true avouch
Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
With sore distraction. What I have done,
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
With this regard their currents turn awry,
With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
With true-love showers.
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
With us to watch the minutes of this night;
With variable objects shall expel
With what, i' the name of God?
With which she follow'd my poor father's body,
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts,--
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night:
Witness this army of such mass and charge
Woo't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
Words, words, words.
Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly,
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Would make them capable. Do not look upon me;
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.
Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear:
Writing
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
Yea, from the table of my memory
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Yes, 'faith heartily.
Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Yet have I something in me dangerous,
Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame!
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
Yet now, I must confess, that duty done,
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
Yet what can it when one can not repent?
You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
You are merry, my lord.
You are naught, you are naught: I'll mark the play.
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is--
You are the most immediate to our throne;
You are the queen, your husband's brother's wife;
You are welcome.
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all. I am glad
You, as your business and desire shall point you;
You cannot call it love; for at your age
You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
You come most carefully upon your hour.
You do not understand yourself so clearly
You do remember all the circumstance?
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
You go not till I set you up a glass
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet; there he is.
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
You know, sometimes he walks four hours together
You know the wager?
You laying these slight sullies on my son,
You lie out on't, sir, and therefore it is not
You mainly were stirr'd up.
You might have rhymed.
You mock me, sir.
You must not put another scandal on him,
You must not take for fire. From this time
You must sing a-down a-down,
You must translate: 'tis fit we understand them.
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said;
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
Young men will do't, if they come to't;
You promised me to wed.
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth:
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
Your leave and favour to return to France;
Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
Your skill shall, like a star i' the darkest night,
Your sudden coming o'er, to play with him.
Yours, yours.
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
Your wisdom best shall think.
Your wisdom should show itself more richer to
You shall do marvellous wisely, good Reynaldo,
You shall not go, my lord.
You should not have believed me; for virtue cannot
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
You will do't, sir, really.
You will lose this wager, my lord.
and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
anon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'
another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and
apiece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
are as mad as he.
are not mine.
ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
as if you would drive me into a toil?
ask you what it means, say you this:
as many of your players do, I had as lief the
assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the
ass will not mend his pace with beating; and, when
a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us
at this line: let me see, let me see--
a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
a year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches,
beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
beautified Ophelia,'--
 beckons 
be hangers till then. But, on: six Barbary horses
be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord
bestowed? Do you hear, let them be well used; for
better--their writers do them wrong, to make them
between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves,
between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how
bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am
breed. If it shall please you to make me a
breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest;
but be merry? for, look you, how cheerfully my
but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
but in the end accepts his love
but to play at loggats with 'em? mine ache to think on't.
but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of
cannot choose but weep, to think they should lay him
cannot play upon me.
card, or equivocation will undo us. By the Lord,
carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
caviare to the general: but it was--as I received
censure of the which one must in your allowance
charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
chiefly loved: 'twas Aeneas' tale to Dido; and
choice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderer
coach! Good night, ladies; good night, sweet ladies;
comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
come; make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
comes in again, seeming to lament with her. 
comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
come then: the appurtenance of welcome is fashion
comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
coming, to offer you service.
commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
complexion.
continent of what part a gentleman would see.
controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
could carry cannon by our sides: I would it might
could he dig without arms? I'll put another
could not so prosperously be delivered of. I will
could see the puppets dallying.
course for England: of them I have much to tell
creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for
cried in the top of mine--an excellent play, well
cuffs in the question.
custom of exercises; and indeed it goes so heavily
daughter. Lord, we know what we are, but know not
daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.
did; I am to do a good turn for them. Let the king
died: they say he made a good end,--
differences, of very soft society and great showing:
digested in the scenes, set down with as much
dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
does well; but how does it well? it does well to
doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan: fetch me a
do, surely, bar the door upon your own liberty, if
drown or hang themselves, more than their even
dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of
earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most
earth we make loam; and why of that loam, whereto he
easier to be played on than a pipe? Call me what
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my
entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
epitaph than their ill report while you live.
excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave
excellent voice, in this little organ; yet cannot
exclaim against their own succession?
express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks
for argument, unless the poet and the player went to
force of honesty can translate beauty into his
forestall their repair hither, and say you are not
for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
for't. What players are they?
for the most part are capable of nothing but
for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to
for you; and here's some for me: we may call it
friend! thy face is valenced since I saw thee last:
from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the
gaffs his kibe. How long hast thou been a
gain-giving, as would perhaps trouble a woman.
gallows is built stronger than the church: argal,
gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
gentleman but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers:
gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
god kissing carrion,--Have you a daughter?
goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
good discretion.
good night, good night.
goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
go to bed.
grave-maker?
grave-maker: 'the houses that he makes last till
grave's this, sirrah?
great article; and his infusion of such dearth and
great folk should have countenance in this world to
great wager on your head: sir, this is the matter,--
harmony; I have not the skill.
has given you one face, and you make yourselves
have bad dreams.
have been in continual practise: I shall win at the
have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
hearer: that great baby you see there is not yet
herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
here lies the point: if I drown myself wittingly,
here's fine revolution, an we had the trick to
her favours?
her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
herself wittingly.
he will keep out water a great while; and your water
him, his umbrage, nothing more.
him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
himself for your succession in Denmark?
his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be
his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
his recoveries: is this the fine of his fines, and
historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-
hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year
honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very
hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half
horses: against the which he has imponed, as I take
how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
if not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the
indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or
indict the author of affectation; but called it an
inexplicable dumbshows and noise: I would have such
in our more rawer breath?
in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
instrument you will, though you can fret me, yet you
in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
in that. I will speak to this fellow. Whose
in the city? are they so followed?
in the fool that uses it. Go, make you ready.
into amazement and admiration.
is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body.
is a strumpet. What's the news?
is mad, and sent into England.
is something musty.
is the image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago is
is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's
is, to act, to do, to perform: argal, she drowned
it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
it: I loved you not.
it, and others, whose judgments in such matters
it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
i' the cold ground. My brother shall know of it:
i' the world.
it is a prison.
it is not so:--it begins with Pyrrhus:--
it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
it; the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
it would not much approve me. Well, sir?
keep counsel; they'll tell all.
king, and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
king best service in the end: he keeps them, like
king hold his purpose, I will win for him an I can;
kisses it, and pours poison in the King's ears, and exit. 
knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
know himself.
know the dressy age dotes on--only got the tune of
lady and mistress! By'r lady, your ladyship is
laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
late innovation.
laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the
lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his quillets,
lays him down upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing him asleep, 
Leaps into the grave
Leaps into the grave
leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
Leave me, friends.
leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his crown, 
leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
lenten entertainment the players shall receive from
lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you,
Lest with this piteous action you convert
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire:
Let come what comes; only I'll be revenged
Let four captains
Let her come in.
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
Let her not walk i' the sun: conception is a
Let him bless thee too.
Let him demand his fill.
Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person:
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
Let in the maid, that out a maid
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
Let me be no assistant for a state,
Let me not burst in ignorance; but tell
Let me not think on't--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
Let me question more in particular: what have you,
Let me see.
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet:
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
Let's follow, Gertrude:
Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him.
Let's further think of this;
Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the
Let them come in.
Let this be so;
let to know it is.
Let us haste to hear it,
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
liberty, these are the only men.
Lifts up the array and discovers POLONIUS
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
Like Niobe, all tears:--why she, even she--
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine:
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself--
live; the rest shall keep as they are. To a
Longer, longer.
longer than they can sing? will they not say
Long live the king!
Look here, upon this picture, and on this,
Looking before and after, gave us not
Look, my lord, it comes!
Looks it not like the king? mark it, Horatio.
Look to't, I charge you: come your ways.
Look to the queen there, ho!
Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
Look, whether he has not turned his colour and has
Look, with what courteous action
Look you, I'll go pray.
Look you, these are the stops.
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star;
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced;
lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
love, and by what more dear a better proposer could
Love! his affections do not that way tend;
love me, hold not off.
love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
love; very near this. I'll speak to him again.
lungs are tickled o' the sere; and the lady shall
Lying down at 's feet
made me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages:
maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but
majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a
majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
man, I am most dreadfully attended. But, in the
mark it. You say right, sir: o' Monday morning;
marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough
mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
me! You would play upon me; you would seem to know
me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
meeting between him and my daughter.--My honourable
me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
me one thing.
me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.
me to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.
might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
might it not?
mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature,
modesty as cunning. I remember, one said there
modesty enough, and likelihood to lead it: as
months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--
more choler.
more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
More matter, with less art.
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
More relative than this: the play 's the thing
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
More than in words?
more willingly part withal: except my life, except
Most constantly.
Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Most free in his reply.
Most generous and free from all contriving,
Most holy and religious fear it is
Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
Most like a gentleman.
Most like: it harrows me with fear and wonder.
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
Most thoroughly for my father.
Most welcome home!
Mother, good night. Indeed this counsellor
mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
Mother, you have my father much offended.
mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
move
moves him to put on his hat
Much heat and him. I'll sconce me even here.
much more handsome than fine. One speech in it I
Murder!
Murder most foul, as in the best it is;
Murder of Gonzago?
Must I remember? why, she would hang on him,
Must give us pause: there's the respect
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words,
Must render up myself.
must show fairly outward, should more appear like
Must there no more be done?
my beck than I have thoughts to put them in,
My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
My custom always of the afternoon,
My dread lord,
My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
My fate cries out,
My father, in his habit as he lived!
my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
My father!--methinks I see my father.
My father's brother, but no more like my father
My father's spirit in arms! all is not well;
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
My good friends, I'll leave you till night: you are
my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
My good lord--
My head should be struck off.
My honour'd lord, you know right well you did;
My honoured lord!
My hour is almost come,
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
my life, except my life
My lord?
My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
My lord, I cannot.
My lord, I did;
My lord, I did intend it.
My lord, I do not know;
My lord, I have.
My lord, I have news to tell you.
My lord, I have news to tell you.
My lord, I have remembrances of yours,
My lord, I'll hit him now.
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
My lord, I will be ruled;
My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
My lord, from head to foot.
My lord, he hath importuned me with love
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet:
My lord, his majesty commended him to you by young
My lord, not I.
My lord, that would dishonour him.
My lord, the king your father.
My lord, the queen would speak with you, and
My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
My lord, we were sent for.
My lord, we will not.
My lord, you must tell us where the body is, and go
My lord, you once did love me.
My lord, you played once i' the university, you say?
My most dear lord!
My mother: father and mother is man and wife; man
My necessaries are embark'd: farewell:
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
My operant powers their functions leave to do:
My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
My stern effects: then what I have to do
mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to
my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
My tables,--meet it is I set it down,
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;
My too much changed son. Go, some of you,
My virtue or my plague, be it either which--
My will, not all the world:
name's Gonzago: the story is extant, and writ in
narrow for your mind.
natural, if philosophy could find it out.
nature's journeymen had made men and not made them
nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the
neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
never acted; or, if it was, not above once; for the
nick-name God's creatures, and make your wantonness
no more of his purchases, and double ones too, than
northerly
not.
not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander,
now; if it be not now, yet it will come: the
now o'er-reaches; one that would circumvent God,
now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen?
nunnery, go.
nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt needs
odds. But thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be
offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
of my servants, for, to speak to you like an honest
of your quality; come, a passionate speech.
one man picked out of ten thousand.
or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful
or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
or whensoever, provided I be so able as now.
our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
out-herods Herod: pray you, avoid it.
out of his swaddling-clouts.
outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we
own defence?
pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him
peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
play, I remember, pleased not the million; 'twas
players--as it is most like, if their means are no
players that I have seen play, and heard others
play with Laertes, or that you will take longer time.
pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now
plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:
praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
presently.
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king
progress through the guts of a beggar.
pronounced:
proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
purpose, confess thyself-- 
quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
question of the play be then to be considered:
question to thee: if thou answerest me not to the
rareness, as, to make true diction of him, his
readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he
replication should be made by the son of a king?
responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages,
rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en
savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
say an old man is twice a child.
say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
say on: he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he
sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
semblable is his mirror; and who else would trace
set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh
shall be dry again.
shall be the end of my business.
shall have tribute of me; the adventurous knight
shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not
she seems loath and unwilling awhile, 
should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
sigh gratis; the humourous man shall end his part
signify this to his doctor; for, for me to put him
sings at grave-making?
sir.
sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command;
sir, was Yorick's skull, the king's jester.
sleeps: say on: come to Hecuba.
snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
something: where did I leave?
some violets, but they withered all when my father
southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
spacious in the possession of dirt.
spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.
spirit, hath sent me to you.
stairs into the lobby.
stands the man; good; if the man go to this water,
start not so wildly from my affair.
steward, that stole his master's daughter.
stoup of liquor.
straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of
study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which
substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
such-a-one's horse, when he meant to beg it; might it not?
suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the
sweet lord! How dost thou, good lord?' This might
tears in's eyes. Pray you, no more.
thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
that I love passing well.
that cry out on the top of question, and are most
that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
that, neither having the accent of Christians nor
that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity
that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
that she sends you to prison hither?
that's the end.
that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambition
that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
that? your majesty and we that have free souls, it
the Queen embracing him, and he her.
the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
the body. The king is a thing--
'the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge.'
the daintier sense.
the duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see
thee. Farewell.
the earth?
the first row of the pious chanson will show you
the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.
the hall: he sends to know if your pleasure hold to
the hobby-horse is forgot.'
the hobby-horse, whose epitaph is 'For, O, for, O,
the king's mess: 'tis a chough; but, as I say,
the length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The
the matter. These good fellows will bring thee
the modesty of nature: for any thing so overdone is
them: on the instant they got clear of our ship; so
the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to
then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with
there. Be the players ready?
thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
there; or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.
the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two
the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
the time and outward habit of encounter; a kind of
the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
the top of my compass: and there is much music,
the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget
they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
they hold up Adam's profession.
this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
this, give these fellows some means to the king:
this machine is to him, .'
this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
this pipe?
those that are married already, all but one, shall
those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet
thousand pound. Didst perceive?
thousand tenants.
three and twenty years.
three hits: he hath laid on twelve for nine; and it
through the most fond and winnowed opinions; and do
thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
time: after your death you were better have a bad
time gives it proof. I did love you once.
'tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
'tis not to come; if it be not to come, it will be
to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far
tongues else for's turn.
too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently;
too; though, in the mean time, some necessary
to see thee well. Welcome, good friends. O, my old
to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason.
to't like French falconers, fly at any thing we see:
touches us not: let the galled jade wince, our
town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
tragedians of the city.
transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the
truepenny?
truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
'twas so indeed.
'twere,--I cannot tell how. But, my lord, his
tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
unmannerly.
variable service, two dishes, but to one table:
verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of
very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in
very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
wards and dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst.
was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and
was converted, might they not stop a beer-barrel?
was the very day that young Hamlet was born; he that
welcome to Elsinore.
we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a taste
well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
were better my mother had not borne me: I am very
were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not
what monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go,
what we may be. God be at your table!
where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their
wherefore I know not--lost all my mirth, forgone all
whether you were sent for, or no?
which your modesties have not craft enough to colour:
wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
wilfully seeks her own salvation?
with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I
withers are unwrung.
with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
with honesty?
with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
with us to the king.
wit, together with most weak hams: all which, sir,
word to the action; with this special o'erstep not
world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
would come to immediate trial, if your lordship
would vouchsafe the answer.
wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
yesty collection, which carries them through and
yield them,
you.
you any further trade with us?
you are asked this question next, say 'a
you could go backward.
you deny your griefs to your friend.
you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
your clowns speak no more than is set down for them;
your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath
your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your
your lingers and thumb, give it breath with your
your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
yourself. But indeed, if you find him not within
yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
you seem to say so.
you, sir; it comes from the ambassador that was
you, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,
you: we coted them on the way; and hither are they
you:--why do you go about to recover the wind of me,
---------------------
Reason: 
Watch sorted lines by last elements
---------------------
daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
I do not think so: since he went into France, I
A whole one, I.
Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I
I could interpret between you and your love, if I
with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I
Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
Fall'n on the inventors' reads: all this can I
That can I;
And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I
Exeunt  and GUILDENSTERN
For Hecuba!
A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! a' poured a
Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a
A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Affront Ophelia:
An you call him a-down-a.
Hark you, Guildenstern; and you too: at each ear a
Enter a 
Ha!
How now, Ophelia!
I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a
And fall a-cursing, like a very drab,
and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb,
Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverb
Come, some music!
And let him ply his music.
A second time I kill my husband dead,
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
Dead.
[Drawing] How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head,
He took my father grossly, full of bread;
And at our more consider'd time well read,
But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
How came he mad?
Alas, he's mad!
And then, they say, no spirit dares stir abroad;
Go to thy death-bed:
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
Good night: but go not to mine uncle's bed;
An thou hadst not come to my bed.
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
a compelled valour, and in the grapple I boarded
But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
But we will ship him hence: and this vile deed
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
A combination and a form indeed,
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
I did repel his fetters and denied
Her mood will needs be pitied.
As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
And, with them, words of so sweet breath composed
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
He does confess he feels himself distracted;
A document in madness, thoughts and remembrance fitted.
And gather by him, as he is behaved,
By desperate appliance are relieved,
But virtue, as it never will be moved,
He is justly served;
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
And where tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd,
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
By and by is easily said.
Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
Come short of what he did.
Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk'd
How was this seal'd?
But, if't be he I mean, he's very wild;
For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
An understanding simple and unschool'd:
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
I do not know from what part of the world
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
But let this same be presently perform'd,
Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame and
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
But to recover of us, by strong hand
If by direct or by collateral hand
And hath shipped me intil the land,
I cannot live to hear the news from England;
Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
For England!
For England.
Against some part of Poland.
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
Enter  and 
Enter , , and 
'Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and
'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and
Exeunt  and 
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
Do, if it will not stand.
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
And you must put me in your heart for friend,
And each particular hair to stand on end,
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
As make your bouts more violent to that end--
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend;
And carriage of the article design'd,
If circumstances lead me, I will find
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
[Aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind.
Honour'd, beloved; and haply one as kind
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
And so am I revenged. That would be scann'd:
Are joyfully return'd.
And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd,
And, like a man to double business bound,
As it hath used to do, that I have found
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
But, better look'd into, he truly found
Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.
Friends to this ground.
Drown'd, drown'd.
Alas, then, she is drown'd?
Do you see this, O God?
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God
[Aside] Though this be madness, yet there is method
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
Good.
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
[Aside] Wormwood, wormwood.
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! I have heard
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
As did that one, and that, in my regard,
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
Have you had quiet guard?
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
Be all my sins remember'd.
A sable silver'd.
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
But, my good lord,--
Ay, my good lord.
How is't, my noble lord?
Arm'd, my lord.
A truant disposition, good my lord.
Ay, good my lord.
Good my lord!
Good my lord,
Good my lord!
Come, my lord.
At home, my lord.
Do you know me, my lord?
Alas, look here, my lord.
I have, my lord.
A thing, my lord!
As gaming, my lord.
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
Fare you well, my lord.
Ay, very well, my lord.
Ay, by heaven, my lord.
Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.
E'en so, my lord.
How fares my lord?
Do not, my lord.
Honest, my lord!
I hear him coming: let's withdraw, my lord.
Ay, my lord;
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord,
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord.
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
And lay your hands again upon my sword:
And, for that purpose, I'll anoint my sword.
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
Ay, lady, 'twas my word.
And when you are desirous to be bless'd,
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
A ministering angel shall my sister be,
If it be,
But this eternal blazon must not be
But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.
I have a voice and precedent of peace,
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
Come, let me wipe thy face.
He falls to such perusal of my face
As they fell out by time, by means and place,
As he in his particular act and place
find him not there, seek him i' the other place
Bernardo has my place.
A double blessing is a double grace,
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
But it reserved some quantity of choice,
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
Break we our watch up; and by my advice,
Here, sweet lord, at your service.
Even while men's minds are wild; lest more mischance
And that our drift look through our bad performance,
Her brother is in secret come from France;
As fits a king's remembrance.
Enter  and , at a distance
And can you, by no drift of circumstance,
For art and exercise in your defence
But to confront the visage of offence?
For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience,
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
[Aside] And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
And call the noblest to the audience.
Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.
Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence;
He closes with you in this consequence;
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
How long is that since?
I am tame, sir: pronounce.
And what's in prayer but this two-fold force,
A pick-axe, and a spade, a spade,
And recks not his own rede.
Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
Aside
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
He's loved of the distracted multitude,
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee,
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
I do not set my life in a pin's fee;
Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
And you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee!
For what advancement may I hope from thee
Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
Go on; I'll follow thee.
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
against six French swords, their assigns, and three
And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
For, by the image of my cause, I see
If this should blast in proof. Soft! let me see:
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
And prey on garbage.
His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
Come on--you hear this fellow in the cellarage--
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge;
Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege,
Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
'Faith, no; as you may season it in the charge
And many such-like 'As'es of great charge,
and drown himself, it is, will he, nill he, he
and drown him, he drowns not himself: argal, he
But how hath she
But where is he?
And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he
first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
Even those you were wont to take delight in, the
Dost thou hear me, old friend; can you play the
He.
I did enact Julius Caesar: I was killed i' the
How absolute the knave is! we must speak by the
Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
And he, repulsed--a short tale to make--
Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake,
altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like
Clambering to hang, an envious sliver broke;
Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
From that particular fault: the dram of eale
How now, Horatio! you tremble and look pale:
For it is, as the air, invulnerable,
As of a man faithful and honourable.
How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
I had not quoted him: I fear'd he did but trifle,
Deprived thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
As to expend your time with us awhile,
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
Bestow this place on us a little while.
Denmark, and those that would make mows at him while
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
And set a double varnish on the fame
And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
Alack, and fie for shame!
By cock, they are to blame.
I can no more: the king, the king's to blame.
Capitol; Brutus killed me.
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me:
Can you advise me?
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
All in the morning betime,
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
If his chief good and market of his time
But that I know love is begun by time;
Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
And, to the last, bended their light on me.
If it be so, as so 'tis put on me,
Hillo, ho, ho, boy! come, bird, come.
I doubt some foul play: would the night were come!
He will stay till ye come.
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
For her perfections: but my revenge will come.
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come;
Have after. To what issue will this come?
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
Her maiden strewments and the bringing home
His access to me.
Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
Come, one for me.
Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
Have you forgot me?
How all occasions do inform against me,
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
And a man's life's no more than to say 'One.'
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane:
Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane,
And liegemen to the Dane.
Hamlet the Dane.
Have by the very cunning of the scene
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine--
'He that thou knowest thine, .'
And I do think, or else this brain of mine
I have a daughter--have while she is mine--
Away! for every thing is seal'd and done
If there be any good thing to be done,
And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
He is dead and gone;
Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
He is gone, he is gone,
Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
From another one?
At his heels a stone.
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
From top to toe? 
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
For the supply and profit of our hope,
Could not so mope.
Half a share.
Give me leave. Here lies the water; good: here
But to my mind, though I am native here
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
Do you see nothing there?
Go seek him there.
Ah, ha, boy! say'st thou so? art thou there,
Drown'd! O, where?
At supper! where?
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
As if it some impartment did desire
For every man has business and desire,
Groped I to find out them; had my desire.
Before you visit him, to make inquire
And thus o'er-sized with coagulate gore,
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more;
Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
Have you so slander any moment leisure,
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
I am satisfied in nature,
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
Among a mineral of metals base,
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
Good sir, whose powers are these?
Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise.
For food and diet, to some enterprise
But even his mother shall uncharge the practise
A sword unbated, and in a pass of practise
For who, that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
Else could you not have motion; but sure, that sense
Hast ta'en with equal thanks: and blest are those
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
And with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
I had my father's signet in my purse,
For this effect defective comes by cause:
Doth rend the region, so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
But, woe is me, you are so sick of late,
And our affairs from England come too late:
[Aside] It is the poison'd cup: it is too late.
Fordo its own life: 'twas of some estate.
As it doth well appear unto our state--
As of a father: for let the world take note,
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
For the demand of our neglected tribute
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
But break, my heart; for I must hold my tongue.
[Aside] O, 'tis too true!
As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
Collected from all simples that have virtue
He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have
But he's an arrant knave.
And not have strew'd thy grave.
Before my God, I might not this believe
And thy commandment all alone shall live
I could not but by her. The other motive,
Buys out the law: but 'tis not so above;
Anon, as patient as the female dove,
Fare you well, my dove!
But never doubt I love.
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
And with no less nobility of love
Could not, with all their quantity of love,
If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
As woman's love.
From the fair forehead of an innocent love
Doubt that the sun doth move;
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
I' faith, if he be not rotten before he die--as we
'Faith, her privates we.
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
He swore, had had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
As day does to your eye.
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God be wi' ye.
Ay, so, God be wi' ye;
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze,
[Advancing] What is he whose grief
By his cockle hat and staff,
Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
If it be made of penetrable stuff,
And live the purer with the other half.
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
Given private time to you; and you yourself
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
Being a thing immortal as itself?
As thou art to thyself:
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
Horatio,--or I do forget myself.
Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
But these cannot I command to any utterance of
Horatio, these three years I have taken a note of
Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is earth; of
But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
And that I see, in passages of proof,
At his head a grass-green turf,
Enter , reading
But, look, where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Did nothing.
I have seen nothing.
As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
And then it started like a guilty thing
As kill a king!
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
And can say nothing; no, not for a king,
Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
How can that be, when you have the voice of the king
Come, go with me: I will go seek the king.
An earnest conjuration from the king,
But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king.
Go, captain, from me greet the Danish king;
Both to my God and to my gracious king:
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Fear me not: withdraw, I hear him coming.
Awake the god of day; and, at his warning,
His silence will sit drooping.
after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
A chalice for the nonce, whereon but sipping,
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
And sure I am two men there are not living
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
Give me your pardon, sir: I've done you wrong;
Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Believe so much in him, that he is young
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
Am I not i' the right, old Jephthah?
And smelt so? pah!
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
Craves the conveyance of a promised march
Appears before them, and with solemn march
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
Follow her close; give her good watch,
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
A baseness to write fair and labour'd much
As if I had never been such.
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
But that the dread of something after death,
He never gave commandment for their death.
Gives me superfluous death.
Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
And hears it roar beneath.
Be thou assured, if words be made of breath,
He's fat, and scant of breath.
How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with
I alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with
Here's to thy health.
By what it fed on: and yet, within a month--
How chances it they travel? their residence, both
Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both,
I do not fear it; I have seen you both:
I cannot dream of: I entreat you both,
As the indifferent children of the earth.
Here's a skull now; this skull has lain in the earth
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
For he himself is subject to his birth:
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
A very riband in the cap of youth,
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i'
Who, I?
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
Thus has he--and many more of the same bevy that I
The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
much more handsome than fine. One speech in it I
My lord, not I.
No, not I;
I hope all will be well. We must be patient: but I
Pointing to POLONIUS
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
breed. If it shall please you to make me a
doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan: fetch me a
Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That looks so many fathoms to the sea
There's another: why may not that be the skull of a
beautified Ophelia,'--
What, the fair Ophelia!
In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Nay, but, Ophelia,--
Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
Sprung from neglected love. How now, Ophelia!
Pretty Ophelia!
gaffs his kibe. How long hast thou been a
Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a
The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a
Let her not walk i' the sun: conception is a
know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
'In her excellent white bosom, these, & c.'
Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric;
The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
We should profane the service of the dead
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
No, no, he is dead:
In the same figure, like the king that's dead.
The source of this our watch and the chief head
To o'ertop old Pelion, or the skyish head
This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
Which was declining on the milky head
With all my imperfections on my head:
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all. I am glad
That hath made him mad.
I will be brief: your noble son is mad:
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
When second husband kisses me in bed.
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed,
go to bed.
Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed;
To be commanded.
It is offended.
This business is well ended.
Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
Stick fiery off indeed.
I know him well: he is the brooch indeed
To show yourself your father's son in deed
So he does indeed.
That he cried out, 'twould be a sight indeed,
O heavy deed!
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
She swounds to see them bleed.
We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need,
She should in ground unsanctified have lodged
Scripture? The Scripture says 'Adam digged:'
Let come what comes; only I'll be revenged
'Tis heavy with him: and am I then revenged,
Of his own just remove: the people muddied,
To the unsatisfied.
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
'Tis Hamlets character. 'Naked!
[Reads] 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlooked
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distilled
You might have rhymed.
To hear him so inclined.
is, to act, to do, to perform: argal, she drowned
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Is in his retirement marvellous distempered.
Pale or red?
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
Part them; they are incensed.
Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
When that her golden couplets are disclosed,
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
When he the ambitious Norway combated;
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
O, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
Which now goes too free-footed.
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
Or like a creature native and indued
It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
I was the more deceived.
caviare to the general: but it was--as I received
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
in the city? are they so followed?
You promised me to wed.
Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd:
Let in the maid, that out a maid
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said;
controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did,
In dreadful secrecy impart they did;
Now is he total gules; horridly trick'd
O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
'Tis in my memory lock'd,
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thrall'd
In his true nature; and we ourselves compell'd,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
To draw apart the body he hath kill'd:
To mine own room again; making so bold,
The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
To what I shall unfold.
Should have a back or second, that might hold,
i' the world.
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
In the corrupted currents of this world
No hat upon his head; his stockings foul'd,
That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should
That treason can but peep to what it would,
Know you the hand?
The corse they follow did with desperate hand
No, by this hand.
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
great article; and his infusion of such dearth and
Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
It must be shortly known to him from England
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England,
is mad, and sent into England.
and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
No, my good lord, but, as you did command,
Put your dread pleasures more into command
O royal knavery!--an exact command,
chiefly loved: 'twas Aeneas' tale to Dido; and
another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and
his recoveries: is this the fine of his fines, and
Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and
Why, e'en so: and now my Lady Worm's; chapless, and
died: they say he made a good end,--
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
The time invites you; go; your servants tend.
That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
I must be cruel, only to be kind:
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
With all the strength and armour of the mind,
Take these again; for to the noble mind
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
To quit him with this arm? and is't not to be damn'd,
That from her working all his visage wann'd,
Upon my life, Lamond.
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.
Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
To thine own peace. If he be now return'd,
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
The single and peculiar life is bound,
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
It waves you to a more removed ground:
We go to gain a little patch of ground
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Upon what ground?
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
With what, i' the name of God?
O God!
That to the use of actions fair and good
No medicine in the world can do thee good;
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
It is not nor it cannot come to good:
That's good; 'mobled queen' is good.
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Will want true colour; tears perchance for blood.
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
Repast them with my blood.
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard,
Never to speak of this that you have heard,
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard,
That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
No, my good lord.
The ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
card, or equivocation will undo us. By the Lord,
I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord,
O'erbears your officers. The rabble call him lord;
O, my dear lord,--
In what, my dear lord?
Nor I, my lord.
Not I, my lord.
What do you read, my lord?
I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord
To what end, my lord?
Nay, good my lord,--
Very good, my lord.
What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
[Within] My lord, my lord,--
Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
There's no offence, my lord.
Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
What a treasure had he, my lord?
There, my lord.
Where, my lord?
Not a jot more, my lord.
That's very true, my lord.
'Tis brief, my lord.
Save yourself, my lord:
I think nothing, my lord.
What speech, my lord?
Propose the oath, my lord.
I shall, my lord.
Very well, my lord
Very well, my lord.
Well, my lord:
Well, my lord.
We will, my lord.
I will, my lord.
What does this mean, my lord?
What follows, then, my lord?
Prison, my lord!
We do, my lord.
You shall not go, my lord.
Wilt please you go, my lord?
[Within] Hillo, ho, ho, my lord!
No, my lord.
We think not so, my lord.
Thanks, dear my lord.
You will lose this wager, my lord.
Neither, my lord.
The actors are come hither, my lord.
What is the matter, my lord?
in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.
What out of this, my lord?
What means this, my lord?
What is, my lord?
You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
What news, my lord?
What part is that, my lord?
What's that, my lord?
What, my lord?
It might, my lord.
I know no touch of it, my lord.
Remember it, my lord?
They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
I will do't, my lord.
I understand you not, my lord.
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord:
What should we say, my lord?
I shall obey, my lord.
You are merry, my lord.
Than is my deed to my most painted word:
O, but she'll keep her word.
The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue, sword;
Striking too short at Greeks; his antique sword,
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for, lo! his sword,
Upon my sword.
Swear by my sword.
Swear by my sword.
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
The ratifiers and props of every word,
Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
Not shriving-time allow'd.
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be
To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
Unto that element: but long it could not be
'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
Then saw you not his face?
Plucks off my beard, and blows it in my face?
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
So by my former lecture and advice,
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice;
To an exploit, now ripe in my device,
coming, to offer you service.
O, vengeance!
There falling out at tennis:' or perchance,
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
Your leave and favour to return to France;
I'll be your foil, Laertes: in mine ignorance
They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance
You do remember all the circumstance?
One scene of it comes near the circumstance
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
On such regards of safety and allowance
censure of the which one must in your allowance
It will be laid to us, whose providence
May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest; no offence
That both the worlds I give to negligence,
Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
Sir, in this audience,
Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
To offer it the show of violence;
Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
I pray you, pass with your best violence;
That so his sickness, age and impotence
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once:
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once!
have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
O, a pit of clay for to be made
O, a pit of clay for to be made
The instant burst of clamour that she made,
Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
The lists and full proportions, are all made
knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
We will ourselves provide:
Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
Let's follow, Gertrude:
have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
Why seems it so particular with thee?
It shall to the barber's, with your beard. Prithee,
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
I say, away! Go on; I'll follow thee.
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;
Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
What is it ye would see?
continent of what part a gentleman would see.
at this line: let me see, let me see--
Let me see.
To keep those many many bodies safe
In thee there is not half an hour of life;
That makes calamity of so long life;
Upon whose property and most dear life
Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
It was, as I have seen it in his life,
Should be as moral as an old man's life?
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Pursued my life.
With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
You are the queen, your husband's brother's wife;
I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
You cannot call it love; for at your age
Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
To have proved most royally: and, for his passage,
When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
The triumph of his pledge.
It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
We may of their encounter frankly judge,
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege:
Of the unworthiest siege.
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
'Tis strange.
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
'Tis very strange.
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
O, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
May sweep to my revenge.
Witness this army of such mass and charge
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
What said he?
earth we make loam; and why of that loam, whereto he
are as mad as he.
his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the
be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the
as many of your players do, I had as lief the
assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the
it; the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the
in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the
calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
apiece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
What is he that builds stronger than either the
from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the
have been in continual practise: I shall win at the
Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the
Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
With arms encumber'd thus, or this headshake,
When he himself might his quietus make
horses: against the which he has imponed, as I take
These hands are not more like.
king best service in the end: he keeps them, like
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
The doors are broke.
The need we have to use you did provoke
Or like a whale?
Very like a whale.
Nay, very pale.
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
Set me the stoops of wine upon that table.
O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
Is't possible?
Is't possible?
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle;
Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
O my prophetic soul! My uncle!
They are coming to the play; I must be idle:
Woo't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile;
Sit down awhile;
Season your admiration for awhile
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
So frown'd he once, when, in an angry parle,
The queen desires you to use some gentle
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
They shall go far with little.
hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
That, for a fantasy and trick of fame,
Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame!
O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
That hath in it no profit but the name.
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
The very same.
Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
To reason most absurd: whose common theme
Why I will fight with him upon this theme
O my son, what theme?
To speak of horrors,--he comes before me.
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
What do you think of me?
What are they that would speak with me?
I pray you, go with me.
To punish me with this and this with me,
charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
To any pastime?
Why day is day, night night, and time is time,
You must not take for fire. From this time
To keep my name ungored. But till that time,
In happy time.
Mark me.
It well appears: but tell me
Who is't that can inform me?
I will, my lord; I pray you, pardon me.
Nor thine on me.
Would make them capable. Do not look upon me;
cannot play upon me.
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile. Come.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
There with fantastic garlands did she come
To let this canker of our nature come
You are welcome.
I'm lost in it, my lord. But let him come;
That if again this apparition come,
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
O, here they come.
To hear the process; and warrant she'll tax him home:
What thou hast said to me.
That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
Speak to me:
Speak to me:
Of his affection to me.
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
It is 'Adieu, adieu! remember me.'
What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me?
King, father, royal Dane: O, answer me!
Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
She well instructs me.
With all my heart; and it doth much content me
Why did you laugh then, when I said 'man delights not me'?
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me:
In noise so rude against me?
Will you be ruled by me?
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
Take thy fair hour, Laertes; time be thine,
Stay; give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
'Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine:
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
To those of mine!
It will be short: the interim is mine;
The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
are not mine.
To be your Valentine.
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.
No more be done:
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
O me, what hast thou done?
Now I am alone.
I will speak daggers to her, but use none;
One.
With sore distraction. What I have done,
Then is the world one.
Shows itself pure; he weeps for what is done.
Yet now, I must confess, that duty done,
Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
The bell then beating one,--
Tis gone!
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
To you alone.
Why, he had none.
You are the most immediate to our throne;
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
On Mars's armour forged for proof eterne
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune;
That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
Nor the soles of her shoe?
O, treble woe
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
Thou comest in such a questionable shape
Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
To business with the king, more than the scope
To desperation turn my trust and hope!
To all that fortune, death and danger dare,
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
What, are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
Peace! who comes here?
Tis here!
Tis here!
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
Slanders, sir: for the satirical rogue says here
That youth and observation copied there;
Our purpose may hold there.
I would I had been there.
It had been so with us, had we been there:
What, is Horatio there?
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there!
I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who's there?
Who's there?
What is the issue of the business there.
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
To England send him, or confine him where
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
To their lord's murder: roasted in wrath and fire,
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire:
What, frighted with false fire!
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
It is most retrograde to our desire:
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
I'll be with you straight go a little before.
Never departed more.
him, his umbrage, nothing more.
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
No more!
'One fair daughter and no more,
O, speak to me no more;
The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more.
O Hamlet, speak no more:
Think it no more;
Makes vow before his uncle never more
beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
Within the centre.
The terms of our estate may not endure
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Making night hideous; and we fools of nature
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
Will not peruse the foils; so that, with ease,
We heard it all. My lord, do as you please;
They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Last, and as much containing as all these,
Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
Unbated and envenom'd: the foul practise
When it proved otherwise?
Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
O, how the wheel becomes it! It is the false
O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
What ceremony else?
What ceremony else?
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
in that. I will speak to this fellow. Whose
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
Still better, and worse.
In obstinate condolement is a course
Sure, he that made us with such large discourse,
Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
That your good beauties be the happy cause
That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house,
To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
There was a' gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
'Tis told me, he hath very oft of late
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Let me be no assistant for a state,
The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
The safety and health of this whole state;
Of his true state.
So far from cheer and from your former state,
The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
The effect of what I wrote?
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
What have I done, that thou darest wag thy tongue
Prologue
There's fennel for you, and columbines: there's rue
This above all: to thine ownself be true,
Then is doomsday near: but your news is not true.
'Tis most true:
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
O, give me leave:
I pray you, give me leave.
What would she have?
Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
Who was in life a foolish prating knave.
excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
Leaps into the grave
Leaps into the grave
I tell thee she is: and therefore make her grave
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
Is now most still, most secret and most grave,
Into my grave.
It shall do well: but yet do I believe
Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes; believe
Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
Nay, but to live
epitaph than their ill report while you live.
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
I think it lacks of twelve.
To contract, O, the time, for, ah, my behove,
In youth, when I did love, did love,
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
There lives within the very flame of love
This is the very ecstasy of love,
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
This mad young man: but so much was our love,
Received his love?
but in the end accepts his love
Mad for thy love?
The instances that second marriage move
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
O, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
The phrase would be more german to the matter, if we
No, not to stay the grinding of the axe,
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
We shall express our duty in his eye;
No place, indeed, should murder sanctuarize;
Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
The origin and commencement of his grief
Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
do, surely, bar the door upon your own liberty, if
It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf
hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half
So much from the understanding of himself,
The devil himself.
know himself.
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
When down her weedy trophies and herself
I loved your father, and we love ourself;
Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.
Observe his inclination in yourself.
It sends some precious instance of itself
Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Whose violent property fordoes itself
With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
That to Laertes I forgot myself;
call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of
It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of
I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of
Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of
know the dressy age dotes on--only got the tune of
Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of
It is not very strange; for mine uncle is king of
The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of
leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
Than fly to others that we know not of?
That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg,
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
Nothing.
Is it not like the king?
Is it the king?
I thank you: keep the door. O thou vile king,
Player King
Player King
Player King
Player King
What company, at what expense; and finding
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
With forms to his conceit? and all for nothing!
Why, then, 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
This man shall set me packing:
They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
There is a play to-night before the king;
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
did; I am to do a good turn for them. Let the king
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
'Laertes shall be king, Laertes king!'
I saw him once; he was a goodly king.
in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
When thou liest howling.
In censure of his seeming.
Upon the talk of the poisoning?
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
The canker galls the infants of the spring,
Not a mouse stirring.
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting,
Writing
When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
differences, of very soft society and great showing:
Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
could see the puppets dallying.
Therefore I have entreated him along
This is too long.
The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
I pray thee, stay with us; go not to Wittenberg.
grave's this, sirrah?
Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech;
I'll tent him to the quick: if he but blench,
I've seen myself, and served against, the French,
To cut his throat i' the church.
Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch,
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
Why this same strict and most observant watch
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
digested in the scenes, set down with as much
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch,
Without the sensible and true avouch
inexplicable dumbshows and noise: I would have such
The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
We'll put the matter to the present push.
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
It may be death.
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
Which I have told thee of my father's death:
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
To muddy death.
Is by a forged process of my death
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
The king shall drink to Hamlet's better breath;
in our more rawer breath?
'Tis e'en so: the hand of little employment hath
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith.
In faith,
Nor I, my lord, in faith.
herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
Retiring with 
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with
'Tis as easy as lying: govern these ventages with
The body is with the king, but the king is not with
O, the recorders! let me see one. To withdraw with
Than I to Hercules: within a month:
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
Lay her i' the earth:
The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth,
'This must be so.' We pray you, throw to earth
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth,
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
Not from his mouth,
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Rankly abused: but know, thou noble youth,
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
What is between you? give me up the truth.
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth:
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak,
Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee, speak!
Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
I do believe you think what now you speak;
Why, now you speak
deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.
But what we do determine oft we break.
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
Alack,
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
So levied as before, against the Polack:
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
He takes her up, and declines his head upon her neck: 
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
A very, very--pajock.
No, it is struck.
So bloodily hast struck?
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
Does not divide the Sunday from the week;
And with a larger tether may he walk
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
Your wisdom best shall think.
Break not your sleeps for that: you must not think
I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Gertrude, do not drink.
If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
Read on this book;
Sprinkle cool patience. Whereon do you look?
There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
A very noble youth: mark.
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
A serpent stung me; so the whole ear of Denmark
Where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark?
There's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark
himself for your succession in Denmark?
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark,
Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
Pray you, mark.
Say you? nay, pray you, mark.
Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work;
How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
What might you think? No, I went round to work,
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
Then, venom, to thy work.
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-
comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
To his own scandal.
Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal,
Which was the model of that Danish seal;
Where every god did seem to set his seal,
gallows is built stronger than the church: argal,
As e'er my conversation coped withal.
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special
I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
Of bell and burial.
Christian burial.
Christian burial.
With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,
The sight is dismal;
His means of death, his obscure funeral--
But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
What's near it with it: it is a massy wheel,
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel
Bow, stubborn knees; and, heart with strings of steel,
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel;
express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
And bear it to the chapel.
With variable objects shall expel
It is backed like a weasel.
Methinks it is like a weasel.
May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
as if you would drive me into a toil?
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
In further evil?
All
And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
Last night of all,
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall,
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
So you shall;
keep counsel; they'll tell all.
He was a man, take him for all in all,
His liberty is full of threats to all;
The better to beguile. This is for all:
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
And so, without more circumstance at all,
Unless things mortal move them not at all,
Or not at all.
Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
As if he had been loosed out of hell
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
Marry, now I can tell.
come; make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
course for England: of them I have much to tell
Mass, I cannot tell.
Let me not burst in ignorance; but tell
and quickly too. Farewell.
Farewell!
Farewell.
fool no where but in's own house. Farewell.
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
Sweets to the sweet: farewell!
Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.
We doubt it nothing: heartily farewell.
The which he loved passing well.'
I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
Farewell, Ophelia; and remember well
I will bestow him, and will answer well
Good my lord, will you see the players well
It likes us well;
Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
Thou pray'st not well.
'And in part him; but' you may say 'not well:
That's two of his weapons: but, well.
I am glad to see you well:
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well:
God be wi' you; fare you well.
Did he receive you well?
cried in the top of mine--an excellent play, well
Let him demand his fill.
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
We must, with all our majesty and skill,
harmony; I have not the skill.
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
It waves me still.
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
grave-maker: 'the houses that he makes last till
If your mind dislike any thing, obey it: I will
To show us so much gentry and good will
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.
What is't, my lord? we will.
We will, we will.
Rough-hew them how we will,--
I will.
could not so prosperously be delivered of. I will
You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will
Though inclination be as sharp as will:
And reason panders will.
I warrant it will.
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will.
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
All flaxen was his poll:
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Our sovereign process; which imports at full,
Throws up a skull
Puts down the skull
Takes the skull
flagon of Rhenish on my head once. This same skull,
Throws up another skull
Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
Affection! pooh! you speak like a green girl,
Good madam, stay awhile; I will be faithful.
O, wonderful!
As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
And my imaginations are as foul
The inward service of the mind and soul
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul,
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
O, step between her and her fighting soul:
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
Lay not that mattering unction to your soul,
To take him in the purging of his soul,
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul,
God ha' mercy on his soul!
The devil take thy soul!
Even with the very comment of thy soul
I hold my duty, as I hold my soul,
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul;
Good madam!
I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
Now falls on Priam.
bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am
That can denote me truly: these indeed seem,
This sudden sending him away must seem
They were given me by Claudio; he received them
And not where I had aim'd them.
You must translate: 'tis fit we understand them.
better--their writers do them wrong, to make them
I pray you, now receive them.
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them:
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
Will you two help to hasten them?
That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
From Hamlet! who brought them?
Of him that brought them.
To him from whom you brought them.
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared him
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him;
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him--
This night to play before him.
O heavenly powers, restore him!
[Within] Heaven secure him!
I did very well note him.
And will not let belief take hold of him
A piece of him.
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
Ay, sir, what of him?
Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
To show his grief: let her be round with him;
Pray you, be round with him.
Grappling with him
That, being of so young days brought up with him,
Your sudden coming o'er, to play with him.
Very well. Follow that lord; and look you mock him
No more to undertake it, I will work him
We cannot get from him.
Did not together pluck such envy from him
That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
And thus awhile the fit will work on him;
You must not put another scandal on him,
I pray you, good Horatio, wait upon him.
Addicted so and so:' and there put on him
Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
He will come straight. Look you lay home to him:
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
Pleasant and helpful to him!
She kneels, and makes show of protestation unto him.
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
Is the great love the general gender bear him;
For love of God, forbear him.
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
Speak loudly for him.
'Anon he finds him
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
Well, we shall sift him.
Nay, let's follow him.
cannot choose but weep, to think they should lay him
Did you assay him?
But not by him.
Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him.
To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.
lenten entertainment the players shall receive from
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
And to the manner born, it is a custom
Is it a custom?
At last, a little shaking of mine arm
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
In filial obligation for some term
Together with that fair and warlike form
And there assume some other horrible form,
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
But, as we often see, against some storm,
king, and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
king hold his purpose, I will win for him an I can;
So much as from occasion you may glean,
To cast thee up again. What may this mean,
That I might be the organ.
Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than
'Sblood, there is something in this more than
To give the world assurance of a man:
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
As thou'rt a man,
Then I would you were so honest a man.
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
The unseen good old man.
Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
Was he a gentleman?
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
and 'gentleman.'
The concernancy, sir? why do we wrap the gentleman
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman,'
What imports the nomination of this gentleman?
Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
Speak, man.
gain-giving, as would perhaps trouble a woman.
Let me not think on't--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
O most pernicious woman!
A Norman.
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
God's bodykins, man, much better: use every man
And we cast away moan:
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
indict the author of affectation; but called it an
Fie on't! ah fie! 'tis an unweeded garden,
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been
Hath seal'd thee for herself; for thou hast been
And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
Never to speak of this that you have seen,
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
What we have two nights seen.
'But who, O, who had seen the mobled queen--'
'The mobled queen?'
Enter two Players, King and Queen
This to your majesty; this to the queen.
How does the queen?
Player Queen
Player Queen
Player Queen
Player Queen
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen:
How now, sweet queen!
And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
Will you know them then?
What woman, then?
But if the gods themselves did see her then
O heavy burthen!
Be you and I behind an arras then;
ass will not mend his pace with beating; and, when
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
Ay, amen!
The imminent death of twenty thousand men,
'Twill, a not be seen in him there; there the men
Come hither, gentlemen,
Gentlemen,--
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Two nights together had these gentlemen,
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
So, gentlemen,
Well be with you, gentlemen!
The form of plausive manners, that these men,
So, oft it chances in particular men,
liberty, these are the only men.
Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
On plots and errors, happen.
And how his audit stands who knows save heaven?
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven;
O, my offence is rank it smells to heaven;
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven;
To heaven.
As oft as any passion under heaven
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Not I, my lord, by heaven.
Unmix'd with baser matter: yes, by heaven!
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
drown or hang themselves, more than their even
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
I shall not look upon his like again.
He never will come again.
And will he not come again?
And will he not come again?
Nay, come, again.
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Perchance 'twill walk again.
Well; again.
Peace, break thee off; look, where it comes again!
But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
And the king's rouse the heavens all bruit again,
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
A murderer and a villain;
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!
[Behind] O, I am slain!
That he which hath your noble father slain
But in battalions. First, her father slain:
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
I doubt it is no other but the main;
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
This the very coinage of your brain:
Sleep rock thy brain,
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Without more motive, into every brain
Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certain
That is most certain.
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain,
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
And never come mischance between us twain!
Up from my cabin,
Let them come in.
[Within] Let her come in.
Let her come in.
No, let's come in.
To his confine: and of the truth herein
'Now the king dunks to Hamlet.' Come, begin:
And, as the world were now but to begin,
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
Priam's slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin
Since nature cannot choose his origin--
Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
Is very cunning in.
A noise within
Noise within
A flourish of trumpets, and ordnance shot off, within
Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within
March within
Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
Flourish of trumpets within
March afar off, and shot within
Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Take them in.
Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in
And after we will both our judgments join
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Our son shall win.
How now! what hath befall'n?
Such was the very armour he had on
I had forgot: 'tis so concluded on.
'High and mighty, You shall know I am set naked on
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
Say you so? come on.
Give us the foils. Come on.
And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
And prologue to the omen coming on,
In honourable fashion.
come then: the appurtenance of welcome is fashion
A scullion!
But in the gross and scope of my opinion,
To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
Into a towering passion.
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
exclaim against their own succession?
When we would bring him on to some confession
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
I'll cross it, though it blast me. Stay, illusion!
This present object made probation.
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
And gem of all the nation.
He waxes desperate with imagination.
I have in quick determination
To show my duty in your coronation,
If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation,
I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
The very place puts toys of desperation,
into amazement and admiration.
Do not forget: this visitation
No noble rite nor formal ostentation--
And they in France of the best rank and station
I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation
late innovation.
The Queen returns; finds the King dead, and makes passionate action. 
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
And could of men distinguish, her election
good discretion.
Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion
According to the phrase or the addition
Truly to speak, and with no addition,
Why should we in our peevish opposition
So horridly to shake our disposition
But with much forcing of his disposition.
That might your nature, honour and exception
Shall in the general censure take corruption
cuffs in the question.
To be, or not to be, that is the question,
By this encompassment and drift of question
That I must call't in question.
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
And thus the native hue of resolution
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
complexion.
afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
For what we know must be and is as common
Ay, madam, it is common.
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
To put an antic disposition on,
And his sandal shoon.
So many journeys may the sun and moon
Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
'Tis well: I'll have thee speak out the rest soon.
What's his weapon?
Indeed, my lord, it follow'd hard upon.
Does it not, think'st thee, stand me now upon--
I do not well understand that. Will you play upon
That capability and god-like reason
O, God! a beast, that wants discourse of reason,
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
Treason! treason!
Indeed? I heard it not: then it draws near the season
Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
it is a prison.
Denmark's a prison.
Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person:
If it assume my noble father's person,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.
Where is your son?
Than that which dearest father bears his son,
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
You laying these slight sullies on my son,
On fortune's cap we are not the very button.
chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
For he was likely, had he been put on,
Go softly on.
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
Since frost itself as actively doth burn
The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
and more strange return. '.'
commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
But, orderly to end where I begun,
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun.
So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
You must sing a-down a-down,
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
They had begun the play--I sat me down,
The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
Well, sit we down,
The king and queen and all are coming down.
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
And break your own neck down.
As therein are set down.
Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
That I can keep your counsel and not mine own.
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
Second Clown
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
As are companions noted and most known
leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his crown, 
Now wears his crown.
As if increase of appetite had grown
Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
That our devices still are overthrown;
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
Tis now struck twelve; get thee to bed, Francisco.
What shall I do?
Dies in his own too much: that we would do
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
You shall do marvellous wisely, good Reynaldo,
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
And in part him: ' do you mark this, Reynaldo?
O God, your only jig-maker. What should a man do
And let them know, both what we mean to do,
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
That you know aught of me: this not to do,
Bernardo?
Holla! Bernardo!
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
'Swounds, show me what thou'lt do:
Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
Which bewept to the grave did go
And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
I do beseech you, give him leave to go.
As infinite as man may undergo--
But let that go.
Be ruled; you shall not go.
Why to a public count I might not go,
Help, help, ho!
Between who?
Saw? who?
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,--
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
O, I die, Horatio;
In my mind's eye, Horatio.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
What ho! Horatio!
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Question it, Horatio.
Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
His beard was grizzled--no?
He does well to commend it himself; there are no
How if I answer 'no'?
If 't be the affliction of his love or no
Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.
Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
Ay, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
'Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so;
Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
E'en so.
I think it be no other but e'en so:
At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,'
And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
I do repent: but heaven hath pleased it so,
If damned custom have not brass'd it so
And let him know so.
I will say so.
I would not hear your enemy say so,
an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouthed, to
It would be spoke to.
Ay, fashion you may call it; go to, go to.
Go to.
a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
No.
No!
The point!--envenom'd too!
Let him bless thee too.
O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too
Why then, your ambition makes it one; 'tis too
Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
Why, 'tis found so.
Let this be so;
Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
Shall I re-deliver you e'en so?
Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
That I have positively said 'Tis so,'
The rather, if you could devise it so
No, by the rood, not so:
No more but so?
anon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'
Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to
'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away gain, from me to
Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to
To 
great folk should have countenance in this world to
him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to
here's fine revolution, an we had the trick to
does well; but how does it well? it does well to
Your wisdom should show itself more richer to
for argument, unless the poet and the player went to
I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens! die two
But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
I mean, my head upon your lap?
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep,
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
lays him down upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing him asleep, 
The tedious day with sleep.
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
To try conclusions, in the basket creep,
Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
Hail to your lordship!
I commend my duty to your lordship.
What means your lordship?
[Behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
Unpeg the basket on the house's top.
Give him the cup.
You mainly were stirr'd up.
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up:
O, yes, my lord; he wore his beaver up.
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;
With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
Here is your husband; like a mildew'd ear,
And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
All given to mine ear.
Why, what should be the fear?
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear:
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
For God's love, let me hear.
Nor did you nothing hear?
Speak; I am bound to hear.
O, speak of that; that do I long to hear.
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
foolish ear.
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear:
So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
How these things came about: so shall you hear
The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
And in his grave rain'd many a tear:--
[Beneath] Swear.
[Beneath] Swear.
[Beneath] Swear.
[Beneath] Swear.
As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear
Consent to swear.
So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
They swear
hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year
Drabbing: you may go so far.
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
Doubt truth to be a liar;
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
And foreign mart for implements of war;
Will you do this, keep close within your chamber.
I beseech you, remember--
That hurts by easing. But, to the quick o' the ulcer:--
[Pointing to his head and shoulder]
As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
Pluck them asunder.
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
And, as I think, they have already order
Of those effects for which I did the murder,
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
For 'tis the sport to have the engineer
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
You know the wager?
Rapier and dagger.
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
That we can let our beard be shook with danger
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
In heaven; send hither to see: if your messenger
Messenger
Messenger
That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger
Excellent well; you are a fishmonger.
This must not be:' and then I precepts gave her,
I will not speak with her.
comes in again, seeming to lament with her. 
Then thus she says; your behavior hath struck her
How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her
Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her;
Came this from Hamlet to her?
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
But, you must know, your father lost a father;
Conceit upon her father.
Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
Not that I think you did not love your father;
To give these mourning duties to your father:
Requite him for your father.
Where's your father?
The apparition comes: I knew your father;
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
Give me my father!
Play something like the murder of my father
The king my father!
Where is my father?
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
The Frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
Nay, come, let's go together.
You know, sometimes he walks four hours together
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
For none, neither.
Why does the drum come hither?
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
So much for this, sir: now shall you see the other;
Folded the writ up in form of the other,
Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
A bloody deed! almost as bad, good mother,
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
Of my true mother.
England! Farewell, dear mother.
[Within] Mother, mother, mother!
But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
Good night, mother.
He that hath kill'd my king and whored my mother,
And--would it were not so!--you are my mother.
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.
Follow my mother.
This is too heavy, let me see another.
Why he more than another?
Enter another 
could he dig without arms? I'll put another
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other--
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
And hurt my brother.
Where wilt thou lead me? speak; I'll go no further.
May give his saying deed; which is no further
How may we try it further?
They bore him barefaced on the bier;
O, farewell, honest soldier:
Or for some frontier?
grave-maker?
No, my lord, rather with choler.
Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner
And pious action we do sugar o'er
Giving a paper
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
At supper.
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
choice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderer
So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;
Winner and loser?
he will keep out water a great while; and your water
Of nothing: bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter
god kissing carrion,--Have you a daughter?
Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
[Aside] Still on my daughter.
a carpenter?'
Enter 
Enter 
Enter 
Enter 
Re-enter 
Re-enter 
That I must be their scourge and minister.
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
Nay, do not think I flatter;
And like a neutral to his will and matter,
To hear and see the matter.
great wager on your head: sir, this is the matter,--
What is the matter?
How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
Now, mother, what's the matter?
This nothing's more than matter.
I loved you ever: but it is no matter;
about my heart: but it is no matter.
To do obsequious sorrow: but to persever
The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
That I have longed long to re-deliver;
With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
Truly deliver.
Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
May be the devil: and the devil hath power
Giving to you no further personal power
In general synod 'take away her power;
Tis gone, and will not answer.
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
Indeed, that is out o' the air.
Devised a new commission, wrote it fair:
Are you fair?
But, soft! methinks I scent the morning air;
It is a nipping and an eager air.
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Mine, sir.
Of him, sir.
For no man, sir.
I am very glad to see you. Good even, sir.
Come on, sir.
fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
God save you, sir!
God be wi' you, sir.
Marry, well said; very well said. Look you, sir,
Hear you, sir;
God bless you, sir.
God bless you, sir!
Sir?
You mock me, sir.
The king, sir,--
With drink, sir?
it would not much approve me. Well, sir?
Who commands them, sir?
Why the man dies. I humbly thank you, sir.
They are of Norway, sir.
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
First Ambassador
bestowed? Do you hear, let them be well used; for
I see a cherub that sees them. But, come; for
It must be 'se offendendo;' it cannot be else. For
indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or
comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for
So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for
And all we mourn for.
I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for
creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for
That thus he suffers for.
What man dost thou dig it for?
Next, your son gone; and he most violent author
And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
Of his behavior.
Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
They retire without the door
And dupp'd the chamber-door;
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror:
That did I, my lord; and was accounted a good actor.
'Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
You come most carefully upon your hour.
That show of such an exercise may colour
Upon mine honour,--
To my revenge: but in my terms of honour
Till by some elder masters, of known honour,
As it behoves my daughter and your honour.
Our duty to your honour.
I warrant your honour.
And in the porches of my ears did pour
For Hamlet and the trifling of his favour,
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
Alas, alas!
Tell him that, by his licence, Fortinbras
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
The nephews to old Norway, Fortinbras.
POLONIUS hides behind the arras
Makes a pass through the arras
Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was
This realm dismantled was
'It came to pass, as most like it was,'--
A whoreson mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?
I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry,--as
Stabs 
In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
Reads
Reads
Reads
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
And do not spread the compost on the weeds,
Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
There, on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands,
Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
Hold off your hands.
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
Importing the surrender of those lands
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
As low as to the fiends!'
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends.
O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
Welcome, my good friends!
Leave me, friends.
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends;
Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds
Abuses me to damn me: I'll have grounds
And passion in the gods.'
Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet; these words
Words, words, words.
Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
What call you the carriages?
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
a year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches,
A king of shreds and patches,--
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
Then up he rose, and donn'd his clothes,
Out of his lunacies.
Are here arrived give order that these bodies
Dies
Dies
Dies
coach! Good night, ladies; good night, sweet ladies;
Falls and dies
The extravagant and erring spirit hies
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;
There is no shuffling, there the action lies
The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
None but his enemies.
Being thus be-netted round with villanies,--
Some little time: so by your companies
When sorrows come, they come not single spies
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
Both your majesties
And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
His further gait herein; in that the levies,
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples
'Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames
When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
For in the fatness of these pursy times
Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
I stay too long: but here my father comes.
Danes
Danes
Danes
A goodly one; in which there are many confines,
But I will delve one yard below their mines,
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes;
Popp'd in between the election and my hopes,
On him, on him! Look you, how pale he glares!
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
And for the day confined to fast in fires,
Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures
The king rises.
Heavens make our presence and our practises
So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
be hangers till then. But, on: six Barbary horses
The king, sir, hath laid, that in a dozen passes
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
As harbingers preceding still the fates
I should have fatted all the region kites
Of mighty opposites.
O, he is mad, Laertes.
So fast they follow; your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
Calmly, good Laertes.
Good Laertes,
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
What is the cause, Laertes,
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
Of Laertes?
And loose your voice: what wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
If it be so, Laertes--
That is Laertes,
You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
How is't, Laertes?
The Poisoner, with some two or three Mutes, 
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
There's matter in these sighs, these profound heaves:
between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves,
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
To the ambassadors of England gives
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
No, nothing but ourselves.
We will bestow ourselves.
has given you one face, and you make yourselves
After the thing it loves.
In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes,
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
Of mine own eyes.
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes;
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes?
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
I am constant to my purpose; they follow the king's
Richer than that which four successive kings
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
He digs and sings
Sings
Sings
Sings
Sings
Sings
Sings
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
And more above, hath his solicitings,
Save me, and hover o'er me with your wings,
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
Ay, sir, that soaks up the king's countenance, his
He poisons him i' the garden for's estate. His
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is
No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is
I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet; there he is.
To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his
If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
force of honesty can translate beauty into his
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
As deep as to the lungs? who does me this?
As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
Now, out of this,--
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
Of habits devil, is angel yet in this,
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
So excellent a king; that was, to this,
Take up the bodies: such a sight as this
But where was this?
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
Alack, what noise is this?
Do you think 'tis this?
This?
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
Let's further think of this;
To whom do you speak this?
Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
Wherefore should you do this?
What warlike noise is this?
Why, what a king is this!
To tell us this.
Why ask you this?
ask you what it means, say you this:
What dost you mean by this?
is the image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago is
lady and mistress! By'r lady, your ladyship is
Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is--
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
let to know it is.
What majesty should be, what duty is,
That not your trespass, but my madness speaks:
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
As from the body of contraction plucks
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
Where should we have our thanks?
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
The lady protests too much, methinks.
for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks
Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works:
Her father and myself, lawful espials,
Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
And, in this brainish apprehension, kills
These tedious old fools!
As to peace-parted souls.
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
have bad dreams.
Seems, madam! nay it is; I know not 'seems.'
'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
He was the first that ever bore arms.
To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms;
A sister driven into desperate terms,
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
Sith I have cause and will and strength and means
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
No, by no means.
ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
Mad let us grant him, then: and now remains
O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
Let four captains
Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins,
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
Makes us traduced and tax'd of other nations:
Is the main motive of our preparations,
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
 beckons 
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
O, for two special reasons;
The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
The insolence of office and the spurns
To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
Sleeps
But age, with his stealing steps,
But, sir, such wanton, wild and usual slips
For out o' doors he went without their helps,
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears;
She speaks much of her father; says she hears
Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
And let us once again assail your ears,
Pours the poison into the sleeper's ears
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
The light and careless livery that it wears
and boy, thirty years.
That was and is the question of these wars.
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers;
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Ah, ha! Come, some music! come, the recorders!
Re-enter Players with recorders
The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's
I loved Ophelia: forty thousand brothers
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
As you are friends, scholars and soldiers,
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
Well, God 'ild you! They say the owl was a baker's
gentleman but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers:
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.
Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
Hautboys play. The dumb-show enters
But keep a farm and carters.
it, and others, whose judgments in such matters
Do you think I meant country matters?
Come, I will make you way for these your letters;
With true-love showers.
Scattering flowers
Larded with sweet flowers
There are the players. 
I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players;
With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
Enter four or five Players
Madam, it so fell out, that certain players
Till the last trumpet: for charitable prayers,
Come, sirs.
Give first admittance to the ambassadors;
Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
To both your honours.
her favours?
The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
Yours, yours.
You go not till I set you up a glass
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
That it might please you to give quiet pass
Then came each actor on his ass,--
A touch, a touch, I do confess.
So tell him, with the occurrents, more and less,
Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less
Without debatement further, more or less,
This is mere madness:
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
And I the matter will re-word; which madness
That I essentially am not in madness,
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
Answer, and think upon this business.
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
It lifted up its head and did address
Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
As one incapable of her own distress,
Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss:
And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Why you proceeded not against these feats,
Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets:
lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his quillets,
The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts: 
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts,--
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
But I do prophesy the election lights
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
if not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits,
As he is very potent with such spirits,
But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
O heavens! is't possible, a young maid's wits
Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Exeunt , , and Attendants
To some Attendants
Exeunt Attendants
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
Between the pass and fell incensed points
And there I see such black and grained spots
Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
To give in evidence. What then? what rests?
Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
Bring him before us.
Laertes, you shall hear them. Leave us.
at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
When our deep plots do pall: and that should teach us
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
What is the reason that you use me thus?
It could not move thus.
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
If that his majesty would aught with us,
I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us,
Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
How long hath she been thus?
a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
it is not so:--it begins with Pyrrhus:--
Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
Where is Polonius?
Lifts up the array and discovers POLONIUS
sleeps: say on: come to Hecuba.
majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a
snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
live; the rest shall keep as they are. To a
mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced;
pronounced:
Mother, you have my father much offended.
My lord, I will be ruled;
question of the play be then to be considered:
o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted
My father, in his habit as he lived!
our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
My lord, I did;
My honour'd lord, you know right well you did;
say an old man is twice a child.
My will, not all the world:
love, and by what more dear a better proposer could
sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command;
one man picked out of ten thousand.
My lord, the queen would speak with you, and
that's the end.
Love! his affections do not that way tend;
narrow for your mind.
now o'er-reaches; one that would circumvent God,
My dread lord,
My honoured lord!
My good lord--
My most dear lord!
Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
My lord?
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be
semblable is his mirror; and who else would trace
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
own defence?
the duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see
that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
my life, except my life
'the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge.'
peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
say on: he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he
Like Niobe, all tears:--why she, even she--
readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he
the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
now; if it be not now, yet it will come: the
man, I am most dreadfully attended. But, in the
neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
question to thee: if thou answerest me not to the
never acted; or, if it was, not above once; for the
suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the
likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the
must show fairly outward, should more appear like
meeting between him and my daughter.--My honourable
she seems loath and unwilling awhile, 
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
My lord, you once did love me.
My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
play with Laertes, or that you will take longer time.
the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.
pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:
My hour is almost come,
Most welcome home!
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine:
Must there no more be done?
that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
My good friends, I'll leave you till night: you are
Much heat and him. I'll sconce me even here.
odds. But thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
modesty as cunning. I remember, one said there
tears in's eyes. Pray you, no more.
mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature,
the daintier sense.
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
something: where did I leave?
My lord, I have.
My lord, he hath importuned me with love
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
move
outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we
My head should be struck off.
love me, hold not off.
purpose, confess thyself-- 
Must render up myself.
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself--
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of
so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
the body. The king is a thing--
More relative than this: the play 's the thing
me one thing.
replication should be made by the son of a king?
sings at grave-making?
Long live the king!
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king
me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
mark it. You say right, sir: o' Monday morning;
Most generous and free from all contriving,
My lord, his majesty commended him to you by young
of your quality; come, a passionate speech.
My virtue or my plague, be it either which--
study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which
set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh
marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
the earth?
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
lungs are tickled o' the sere; and the lady shall
My necessaries are embark'd: farewell:
thee. Farewell.
that I love passing well.
My father's spirit in arms! all is not well;
or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful
substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
nature's journeymen had made men and not made them
pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him
Must I remember? why, she would hang on him,
My lord, that would dishonour him.
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
signify this to his doctor; for, for me to put him
no more of his purchases, and double ones too, than
My mother: father and mother is man and wife; man
Most like a gentleman.
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en
My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen?
love; very near this. I'll speak to him again.
shall be dry again.
my beck than I have thoughts to put them in,
name's Gonzago: the story is extant, and writ in
Look, with what courteous action
that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambition
My custom always of the afternoon,
My tables,--meet it is I set it down,
My operant powers their functions leave to do:
My stern effects: then what I have to do
Murder of Gonzago?
My lord, you must tell us where the body is, and go
nunnery, go.
Look to the queen there, ho!
Looks it not like the king? mark it, Horatio.
players--as it is most like, if their means are no
or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
the hobby-horse, whose epitaph is 'For, O, for, O,
this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
you are asked this question next, say 'a
yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
the top of my compass: and there is much music,
time: after your death you were better have a bad
'twas so indeed.
thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
to see thee well. Welcome, good friends. O, my old
though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and
yesty collection, which carries them through and
wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
you deny your griefs to your friend.
you could go backward.
'tis not to come; if it be not to come, it will be
time gives it proof. I did love you once.
the matter. These good fellows will bring thee
to't like French falconers, fly at any thing we see:
your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the
this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
the length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The
tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
variable service, two dishes, but to one table:
what we may be. God be at your table!
till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
you:--why do you go about to recover the wind of me,
your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
this pipe?
there; or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.
welcome to Elsinore.
we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a taste
thousand pound. Didst perceive?
the time and outward habit of encounter; a kind of
verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of
thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
this, give these fellows some means to the king:
with us to the king.
withers are unwrung.
your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath
then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with
was converted, might they not stop a beer-barrel?
wherefore I know not--lost all my mirth, forgone all
those that are married already, all but one, shall
worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
yield them,
your clowns speak no more than is set down for them;
this machine is to him, .'
very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in
yourself. But indeed, if you find him not within
they hold up Adam's profession.
wilfully seeks her own salvation?
to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason.
tongues else for's turn.
through the most fond and winnowed opinions; and do
what monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go,
very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
whether you were sent for, or no?
they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
them: on the instant they got clear of our ship; so
the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
you seem to say so.
the hall: he sends to know if your pleasure hold to
mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to
with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to
periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two
would come to immediate trial, if your lordship
or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far
progress through the guts of a beggar.
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star;
not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander,
Most like: it harrows me with fear and wonder.
Murder!
Longer, longer.
the Queen embracing him, and he her.
My lord, the king your father.
My father!--methinks I see my father.
My father's brother, but no more like my father
some violets, but they withered all when my father
Most thoroughly for my father.
that she sends you to prison hither?
more choler.
stands the man; good; if the man go to this water,
steward, that stole his master's daughter.
mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
sir, was Yorick's skull, the king's jester.
were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
would vouchsafe the answer.
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
start not so wildly from my affair.
where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their
sir.
wit, together with most weak hams: all which, sir,
My lord, we were sent for.
truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
Mother, good night. Indeed this counsellor
that, neither having the accent of Christians nor
poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
stoup of liquor.
touches us not: let the galled jade wince, our
which your modesties have not craft enough to colour:
your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your
your lingers and thumb, give it breath with your
not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
Look, whether he has not turned his colour and has
that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
modesty enough, and likelihood to lead it: as
you, sir; it comes from the ambassador that was
play, I remember, pleased not the million; 'twas
nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt needs
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words,
More than in words?
Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages,
made me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages:
Look, my lord, it comes!
more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
Most fair return of greetings and desires.
there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;
the modesty of nature: for any thing so overdone is
'twere,--I cannot tell how. But, my lord, his
rareness, as, to make true diction of him, his
Look here, upon this picture, and on this,
Most holy and religious fear it is
Murder most foul, as in the best it is;
Look you, these are the stops.
three and twenty years.
players that I have seen play, and heard others
wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.
My lord, I have remembrances of yours,
might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
shall be the end of my business.
nick-name God's creatures, and make your wantonness
love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
thousand tenants.
out of his swaddling-clouts.
you any further trade with us?
Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
Welcome, Horatio: welcome, good Marcellus.
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? Marcellus?
Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
For your desire to know what is between us,
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous:
offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
Yet have I something in me dangerous,
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
Of blue Olympus.
Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws,
Thou still hast been the father of good news.
is a strumpet. What's the news?
How now! what news?
I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows
There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
This was your husband. Look you now, what follows:
This presence knows,
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows;
Cock crows
Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows,
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
And sets a blister there, makes marriage-vows
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
Look to't, I charge you: come your ways.
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys;
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
A villain kills my father; and for that,
As I perceived it, I must tell you that,
Besides, to be demanded of a sponge! what
Believe what?
abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
Ay me, what act,
By letters congruing to that effect,
As will not leave their tinct.
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
And put it in his pocket!
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
Ay, Hamlet.
But you'll be secret?
And with a sudden vigour doth posset
And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet
And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight,
Ah, my good lord, what have I seen to-night!
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
And vanish'd from our sight.
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
But answer made it none: yet once methought
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
and of very liberal conceit.
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
And draw you into madness? think of it:
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
And will not wrong it.
A hit, a very palpable hit.
But do not go with it.
against the Danish. Why is this 'imponed,' as you call it?
But truly, I do fear it.
Cain's jaw-bone, that did the first murder! It
beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish: I eat
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
Had witchcraft in't; he grew unto his seat;
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings: I ha't.
moves him to put on his hat
Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
was the very day that young Hamlet was born; he that
[To ] O, ho! do you mark that?
Is she to be buried in Christian burial that
E'en that.
How now! what noise is that?
Do you doubt that?
I have not art to reckon my groans: but that
I would know that.
Hath there been such a time--I'd fain know that--
I must to England; you know that?
Why, there thou say'st: and the more pity that
To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
What?
easier to be played on than a pipe? Call me what
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat;
Whips out his rapier, cries, 'A rat, a rat!'
proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
Is thought-sick at the act.
Such an act
What did you enact?
Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
She is importunate, indeed distract:
Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
The leperous distilment; whose effect
That we find out the cause of this effect,
'Twere better not assay'd: therefore this project
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
Must give us pause: there's the respect
liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
To lay our service freely at your feet,
Lying down at 's feet
For and a shrouding sheet:
O, methought, there was nothing meet.
For such a guest is meet.
For such a guest is meet.
When in one line two crafts directly meet.
Methought it was very sweet,
the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
Good my lord, be quiet.
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
[Within] Lord Hamlet,--
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
[Within] Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
That I will speak to thee: I'll call thee Hamlet,
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet:
The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
How fares our cousin Hamlet?
What noise? who calls on Hamlet?
No, no, the drink, the drink,--O my dear Hamlet,--
Speak to her, Hamlet.
Thy loving father, Hamlet.
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet:
No more, sweet Hamlet!
Hamlet, Hamlet!
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet--
Why, how now, Hamlet!
Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet:
My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
Pays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly set
Give me the cup: let go; by heaven, I'll have't.
though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet
hearer: that great baby you see there is not yet
Here's yet some liquor left.
Marry, sir, here's my drift;
Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
That lend a tyrannous and damned light
Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light!
This must be known; which, being kept close, might
sweet lord! How dost thou, good lord?' This might
savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
could carry cannon by our sides: I would it might
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night:
Well, good night.
The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
good night, good night.
Give you good night.
Give you good night.
In the dead vast and middle of the night,
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Tis now the very witching time of night,
What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
shall have tribute of me; the adventurous knight
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:
Hold you the watch to-night?
I will watch to-night;
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Never make known what you have seen to-night.
What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
With us to watch the minutes of this night;
Your skill shall, like a star i' the darkest night,
Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right
Why, right; you are i' the right;
It falls right.
That ever I was born to set it right!
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight;
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
Where is this sight?
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
I never gave you aught.
Marry, well bethought:
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
He did comply with his dug, before he sucked it.
out-herods Herod: pray you, avoid it.
three hits: he hath laid on twelve for nine; and it
Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
My lord, I did intend it.
So be it!
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
So by his father lost: and this, I take it,
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
Never believe it:
Do not believe it.
So have I heard and do in part believe it.
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
O, throw away the worser part of it,
i' the cold ground. My brother shall know of it:
To let you know of it.
Than your particular demands will touch it:
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
How say you, then; would heart of man once think it?
Good my lord, tell it.
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
Did you not speak to it?
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
And am most sensible in grief for it,
And I beseech you instantly to visit
But that this folly douts it.
Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it
Heaven will direct it.
a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it
fit.
Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit,
We would not understand what was most fit;
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
It beckons you to go away with it,
you, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,
No; you'll reveal it.
Of Hamlet's transformation; so call it,
for you; and here's some for me: we may call it
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
Let us haste to hear it,
Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
I am thy father's spirit,
The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
Whose was it?
straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it
it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
that? your majesty and we that have free souls, it
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
It will not speak; then I will follow it.
kisses it, and pours poison in the King's ears, and exit. 
We will try it.
I do not think't.
say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt,
O, that this too too solid flesh would melt
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
Of general assault.
Will he tell us what this show meant?
And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
I know you are not ignorant--
Against yourself: I know you are no truant.
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent
The associates tend, and every thing is bent
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
And call it accident.
I pray thee, do not mock me, fellow-student;
Up, sword; and know thou a more horrid hent:
How in my words soever she be shent,
Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
Sir, I lack advancement.
I stand aloof; and will no reconcilement,
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
Judgment.
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
And enterprises of great pith and moment
Is not to stir without great argument,
This grave shall have a living monument:
Why, man, they did make love to this employment;
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Yet what can it when one can not repent?
His purse is empty already; all's golden words are spent.
Haply the seas and countries different
Why, any thing, but to the purpose. You were sent
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
Against the which, a moiety competent
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
To give it due content.
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Of thinking too precisely on the event,
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
Who is to be buried in't?
Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in 't?
That has no relish of salvation in't;
That is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
I think it be thine, indeed; for thou liest in't.
Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't:
but to play at loggats with 'em? mine ache to think on't.
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
What think you on't?
I have sworn 't.
Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
O God, I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
I will do't:
the hobby-horse is forgot.'
That thou so many princes at a shot
I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Cries cuckold to my father, brands the harlot
A brother's murder. Pray can I not,
O, fear me not.
forestall their repair hither, and say you are not
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
My lord, we will not.
Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not:
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
My lord, I cannot.
Believe me, I cannot.
Sir, I cannot.
You should not have believed me; for virtue cannot
We shall know by this fellow: the players cannot
excellent voice, in this little organ; yet cannot
Mark the encounter: if he love her not
You lie out on't, sir, and therefore it is not
Looking before and after, gave us not
Nay, that follows not.
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
Try what repentance can: what can it not?
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
might it not?
it: I loved you not.
I would set down and insert in't, could you not?
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
In what particular thought to work I know not;
Nay, I know not:
Nay, I know not.
daughter. Lord, we know what we are, but know not
No, indeed, are they not.
not.
shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not
word to the action; with this special o'erstep not
what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not
such-a-one's horse, when he meant to beg it; might it not?
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
With heraldry more dismal; head to foot
My lord, from head to foot.
Go, bid the soldiers shoot. 
How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
Friend, look to 't.
To't.
Young men will do't, if they come to't;
'As by lot, God wot,'
I find thee apt;
more willingly part withal: except my life, except
Exeunt all except 
A face without a heart?
The head is not more native to the heart,
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
There's tricks i' the world; and hems, and beats her heart;
This something-settled matter in his heart,
And I am sick at heart.
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart;
It warms the very sickness in my heart,
Nay, but swear't.
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
admiration? Impart.
Thy knotted and combined locks to part
Such as it is; and for mine own poor part,
sigh gratis; the humourous man shall end his part
More matter, with less art.
My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Lest with this piteous action you convert
spacious in the possession of dirt.
To make it truster of your own report
And gave you such a masterly report
And with a look so piteous in purport
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
That she should lock herself from his resort,
As it is common for the younger sort
O, yet defend me, friends; I am but hurt.
To hear of it: they are about the court,
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
'The rugged Pyrrhus, like the Hyrcanian beast,'--
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
Well said, old mole! canst work i' the earth so fast?
friend! thy face is valenced since I saw thee last:
By laboursome petition, and at last
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
A Norman was't?
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
'tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
First Priest
First Priest
of my servants, for, to speak to you like an honest
None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest;
Ha, ha! are you honest?
That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest
O, confound the rest!
No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
Give me one poor request.
This heavy-headed revel east and west
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
Ay, marry, is't:
'Thine evermore most dear lady, whilst
Alas, poor ghost!
As made the things more rich: their perfume lost,
And so have I a noble father lost;
'To the celestial and my soul's idol, the most
Whose motive, in this case, should stir me most
that cry out on the top of question, and are most
earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
None wed the second but who kill'd the first.
wards and dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst.
In second husband let me be accurst!
Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseased: but,
Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but
and queen moult no feather. I have of late--but
for the most part are capable of nothing but
Exeunt all but 
Exeunt all but 
Exeunt all but 
O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother! But
maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
Where is this king? Sirs, stand you all without.
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
And either [ ] the devil, or throw him out
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out
My fate cries out,
By indirections find directions out:
natural, if philosophy could find it out.
Treachery! Seek it out.
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
Not when I saw't.
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
I love thee best, O most best, believe it. Adieu.
I'll rant as well as thou.
For husband shalt thou--
O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
'Thus didest thou.'
My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
So, proceed you.
between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
Who hath relieved you?
It would have much amazed you.
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
She desires to speak with you in her closet, ere you
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
Ophelia, walk you here. Gracious, so please you,
Let me question more in particular: what have you,
a difference. There's a daisy: I would give you
[Aside] Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you
Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you;
My too much changed son. Go, some of you,
lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
He made confession of you,
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
I beseech you.
I do beseech you.
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
Sir, my good friend; I'll change that name with you:
And he to England shall along with you:
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
Alas, how is't with you,
Had it the ability of life to thank you:
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working, Mark you,
lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you,
Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
My lord, I have news to tell you.
My lord, I have news to tell you.
And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
But let me hear from you.
Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you;
How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
And fix'd his eyes upon you?
We'll wait upon you.
What I have said to you.
What is't, Ophelia, be hath said to you?
With all my love I do commend me to you:
spirit, hath sent me to you.
May do, to express his love and friending to you,
This marvel to you.
Laertes, was your father dear to you?
Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? you
Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.
I know the good king and queen have sent for you.
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
instrument you will, though you can fret me, yet you
Before my daughter told me--what might you,
I'll visit you.
I'll warrant you,
You, as your business and desire shall point you;
Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you
the first row of the pious chanson will show you
How purposed, sir, I pray you?
I pray you.
I pray you.
Arm'd, say you?
[Aside to GUILDENSTERN] What say you?
Another hit; what say you?
Who shall stay you?
I shall obey you.
you.
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw!
But is this law?
Ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
Dies not alone; but, like a gulf, doth draw
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
Will not debate the question of this straw:
southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
High on a stage be placed to the view;
It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
A dream itself is but a shadow.
quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
And I a maid at your window,
how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
But I have that within which passeth show;
Not of that dye which their investments show,
borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how
The bold winds speechless and the orb below
[Rising] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below:
A rhapsody of words: heaven's face doth glow:
Of these delated articles allow.
Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
Therefore let's follow.
The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
No, nor mine now.
it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
Not that I know.
And tell you what I know.
How should I your true love know
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
me! You would play upon me; you would seem to know
And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
And ever three parts coward, I do not know
My lord, I do not know;
It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
and then, you know,
My lord, I'll hit him now.
What's the matter now?
How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
What hour now?
or whensoever, provided I be so able as now.
White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
His beard was as white as snow,
If she should break it now!
See you now;
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
Have at you now!
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now
Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
See, what a grace was seated on this brow;
Does by their own insinuation grow:
Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
And in the cup an union shall he throw,
And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
Or of a courtier; which could say 'Good morrow,
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
How does your honour for this many a day?
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
And do such bitter business as the day
And it must follow, as the night the day,
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day,
I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
That guilty creatures sitting at a play
The hart ungalled play;
Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
You are naught, you are naught: I'll mark the play.
What do you call the play?
But, if you hold it fit, after the play
They prepare to play
entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
Madam, how like you this play?
The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play
O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
For they are actions that a man might play:
They play
They play
They play
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
Madam, I wish it may.
To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; pray,
Look you, I'll go pray.
about to say? By the mass, I was about to say
Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay!
Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say,
Say,
the king's mess: 'tis a chough; but, as I say,
The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
longer than they can sing? will they not say
more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--
My lord, you played once i' the university, you say?
for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
Very strangely, they say.
The dead body is carried away. 
So runs the world away.
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away:
And what's untimely done. O, come away!
O Gertrude, come away!
Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
Away, I do beseech you, both away:
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
See, it stalks away!
Why, look you there! look, how it steals away!
Do the boys carry it away?
Nothing, neither way.
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way,
Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby;
Here in the lobby.
stairs into the lobby.
me to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.
I dare not drink yet, madam; by and by.
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
That you must teach me. But let me conjure you, by
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy
Here stooping to your clemency,
That he is open to incontinency;
Well, God-a-mercy.
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
We have sworn, my lord, already.
Thou know'st already.
there. Be the players ready?
in the fool that uses it. Go, make you ready.
One word more, good lady.
He is dead and gone, lady,
How is it with you, lady?
How do you, pretty lady?
The best actors in the world, either for tragedy,
For us, and for our tragedy,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
For if the king like not the comedy,
Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body.
I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
All my smooth body.
And makes each petty artery in this body
With which she follow'd my poor father's body,
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
But we both obey,
you: we coted them on the way; and hither are they
for't. What players are they?
Pray you, let's have no words of this; but when they
fashion, and so berattle the common stages--so they
Happily he's the second time come to them; for they
me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
This warlike volley.
Why?
Why,
Why,
well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
I embrace it freely;
Subscribed it, gave't the impression, placed it safely,
How strangely?
It may be, very likely.
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
I humbly thank you, sir. Dost know this water-fly?
What, look'd he frowningly?
herself wittingly.
here lies the point: if I drown myself wittingly,
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; 
Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly,
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
Yes, 'faith heartily.
I'm sorry they offend you, heartily;
custom of exercises; and indeed it goes so heavily
Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally;
You will do't, sir, really.
And for your rapier most especially,
For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly,
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply:
Most free in his reply.
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
You do not understand yourself so clearly
northerly
unmannerly.
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
Most constantly.
too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently;
Where we shall find him most conveniently.
We beg your hearing patiently.
I'll board him presently.
And the queen too, and that presently
Been struck so to the soul that presently
presently.
That's not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly
and so I thank you for your good counsel. Come, my
Directly seasons him his enemy.
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my
[Aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my
But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my
entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my
but be merry? for, look you, how cheerfully my
And hath abatements and delays as many
truepenny?
Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny;
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
The violence of either grief or joy
For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
Meet what I would have well and it destroy!
Happy, in that we are not over-happy;
The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
too; though, in the mean time, some necessary
As England was his faithful tributary,
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
When in your motion you are hot and dry--
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
all; believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery.
Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
were better my mother had not borne me: I am very
honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very
carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
And these few precepts in thy memory
Yea, from the table of my memory
Sir, a whole history.
That are so fortified against our story
To tell my story.
At 'closes in the consequence,' ay, marry;
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
Of man and country.
A station like the herald Mercury
With this regard their currents turn awry,
To the next abstinence: the next more easy;
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Ecstasy!
This bodiless creation ecstasy
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
And meant to wreck thee; but, beshrew my jealousy!
Than to entreaty.
Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,--
tragedians of the city.
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
In neither aught, or in extremity.
that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity
From me, whose love was of that dignity
Passing through nature to eternity.
To his unmaster'd importunity.
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
By Gis and by Saint Charity,
For women's fear and love holds quantity;
As, in their birth--wherein they are not guilty,
If you desire to know the certainty
they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
To youth and liberty.
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
Thy natural magic and dire property,
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
The lives of many. The cease of majesty
That live and feed upon your majesty.
To give the assay of arms against your majesty.
He that plays the king shall be welcome; his majesty
should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
with honesty?
is something musty.
How comes it? do they grow rusty?
Over the nasty sty,--
admit no discourse to your beauty.
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
And we did think it writ down in our duty
In that and all things will we show our duty.
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz:
Buz, buz!
---------------------
Reason: 
Watch original text
---------------------
Who's there?
Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.
Long live the king!
Bernardo?
He.
You come most carefully upon your hour.
Tis now struck twelve; get thee to bed, Francisco.
For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
And I am sick at heart.
Have you had quiet guard?
Not a mouse stirring.
Well, good night.
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who's there?
Friends to this ground.
And liegemen to the Dane.
Give you good night.
O, farewell, honest soldier:
Who hath relieved you?
Bernardo has my place.
Give you good night.
Holla! Bernardo!
Say,
What, is Horatio there?
A piece of him.
Welcome, Horatio: welcome, good Marcellus.
What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
I have seen nothing.
Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
And will not let belief take hold of him
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
Therefore I have entreated him along
With us to watch the minutes of this night;
That if again this apparition come,
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
Sit down awhile;
And let us once again assail your ears,
That are so fortified against our story
What we have two nights seen.
Well, sit we down,
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
Last night of all,
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
The bell then beating one,--
Enter 
Peace, break thee off; look, where it comes again!
In the same figure, like the king that's dead.
Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
Looks it not like the king? mark it, Horatio.
Most like: it harrows me with fear and wonder.
It would be spoke to.
Question it, Horatio.
What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
Together with that fair and warlike form
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
It is offended.
See, it stalks away!
Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee, speak!
Tis gone, and will not answer.
How now, Horatio! you tremble and look pale:
Is not this something more than fantasy?
What think you on't?
Before my God, I might not this believe
Without the sensible and true avouch
Of mine own eyes.
Is it not like the king?
As thou art to thyself:
Such was the very armour he had on
When he the ambitious Norway combated;
So frown'd he once, when, in an angry parle,
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
'Tis strange.
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
In what particular thought to work I know not;
But in the gross and scope of my opinion,
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
Why this same strict and most observant watch
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
And foreign mart for implements of war;
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Does not divide the Sunday from the week;
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
Who is't that can inform me?
That can I;
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet--
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him--
Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror:
Against the which, a moiety competent
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
And carriage of the article design'd,
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
For food and diet, to some enterprise
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other--
As it doth well appear unto our state--
But to recover of us, by strong hand
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
So by his father lost: and this, I take it,
Is the main motive of our preparations,
The source of this our watch and the chief head
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
I think it be no other but e'en so:
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
That was and is the question of these wars.
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets:
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
As harbingers preceding still the fates
And prologue to the omen coming on,
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
Re-enter 
I'll cross it, though it blast me. Stay, illusion!
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
Speak to me:
If there be any good thing to be done,
That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
Speak to me:
Cock crows
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
Do, if it will not stand.
Tis here!
Tis here!
Tis gone!
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
To offer it the show of violence;
For it is, as the air, invulnerable,
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
And then it started like a guilty thing
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard,
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Awake the god of day; and, at his warning,
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
The extravagant and erring spirit hies
To his confine: and of the truth herein
This present object made probation.
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
And then, they say, no spirit dares stir abroad;
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
So have I heard and do in part believe it.
But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
Break we our watch up; and by my advice,
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
Where we shall find him most conveniently.
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
Importing the surrender of those lands
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
His further gait herein; in that the levies,
The lists and full proportions, are all made
Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
Giving to you no further personal power
To business with the king, more than the scope
Of these delated articles allow.
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
In that and all things will we show our duty.
We doubt it nothing: heartily farewell.
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
And loose your voice: what wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
The head is not more native to the heart,
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
My dread lord,
Your leave and favour to return to France;
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark,
To show my duty in your coronation,
Yet now, I must confess, that duty done,
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
By laboursome petition, and at last
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
I do beseech you, give him leave to go.
Take thy fair hour, Laertes; time be thine,
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
[Aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind.
How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun.
Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
Passing through nature to eternity.
Ay, madam, it is common.
If it be,
Why seems it so particular with thee?
Seems, madam! nay it is; I know not 'seems.'
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
That can denote me truly: these indeed seem,
For they are actions that a man might play:
But I have that within which passeth show;
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
To give these mourning duties to your father:
But, you must know, your father lost a father;
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
In filial obligation for some term
To do obsequious sorrow: but to persever
In obstinate condolement is a course
Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
An understanding simple and unschool'd:
For what we know must be and is as common
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
To reason most absurd: whose common theme
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
'This must be so.' We pray you, throw to earth
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
As of a father: for let the world take note,
You are the most immediate to our throne;
And with no less nobility of love
Than that which dearest father bears his son,
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
It is most retrograde to our desire:
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet:
I pray thee, stay with us; go not to Wittenberg.
I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply:
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come;
This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day,
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
And the king's rouse the heavens all bruit again,
Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.
Exeunt all but 
O, that this too too solid flesh would melt
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
Fie on't! ah fie! 'tis an unweeded garden,
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
So excellent a king; that was, to this,
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
Must I remember? why, she would hang on him,
As if increase of appetite had grown
By what it fed on: and yet, within a month--
Let me not think on't--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
With which she follow'd my poor father's body,
Like Niobe, all tears:--why she, even she--
O, God! a beast, that wants discourse of reason,
Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
My father's brother, but no more like my father
Than I to Hercules: within a month:
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
It is not nor it cannot come to good:
But break, my heart; for I must hold my tongue.
Enter , , and 
Hail to your lordship!
I am glad to see you well:
Horatio,--or I do forget myself.
The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
Sir, my good friend; I'll change that name with you:
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? Marcellus?
My good lord--
I am very glad to see you. Good even, sir.
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
A truant disposition, good my lord.
I would not hear your enemy say so,
Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
To make it truster of your own report
Against yourself: I know you are no truant.
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
I pray thee, do not mock me, fellow-student;
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
Indeed, my lord, it follow'd hard upon.
Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
My father!--methinks I see my father.
Where, my lord?
In my mind's eye, Horatio.
I saw him once; he was a goodly king.
He was a man, take him for all in all,
I shall not look upon his like again.
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
Saw? who?
My lord, the king your father.
The king my father!
Season your admiration for awhile
With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
This marvel to you.
For God's love, let me hear.
Two nights together had these gentlemen,
Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch,
In the dead vast and middle of the night,
Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
Appears before them, and with solemn march
Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk'd
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distilled
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
In dreadful secrecy impart they did;
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
The apparition comes: I knew your father;
These hands are not more like.
But where was this?
My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
Did you not speak to it?
My lord, I did;
But answer made it none: yet once methought
It lifted up its head and did address
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
And vanish'd from our sight.
'Tis very strange.
As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
And we did think it writ down in our duty
To let you know of it.
Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
Hold you the watch to-night?
We do, my lord.
Arm'd, say you?
Arm'd, my lord.
From top to toe? 
My lord, from head to foot.
Then saw you not his face?
O, yes, my lord; he wore his beaver up.
What, look'd he frowningly?
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Pale or red?
Nay, very pale.
And fix'd his eyes upon you?
Most constantly.
I would I had been there.
It would have much amazed you.
Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Longer, longer.
Not when I saw't.
His beard was grizzled--no?
It was, as I have seen it in his life,
A sable silver'd.
I will watch to-night;
Perchance 'twill walk again.
I warrant it will.
If it assume my noble father's person,
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well:
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
I'll visit you.
Our duty to your honour.
Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.
Exeunt all but 
My father's spirit in arms! all is not well;
I doubt some foul play: would the night were come!
Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
My necessaries are embark'd: farewell:
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
But let me hear from you.
Do you doubt that?
For Hamlet and the trifling of his favour,
Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more.
No more but so?
Think it no more;
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes,
The inward service of the mind and soul
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
For he himself is subject to his birth:
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
The safety and health of this whole state;
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
As he in his particular act and place
May give his saying deed; which is no further
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain,
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
To his unmaster'd importunity.
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
The canker galls the infants of the spring,
Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear:
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep,
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven;
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
And recks not his own rede.
O, fear me not.
I stay too long: but here my father comes.
A double blessing is a double grace,
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame!
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
And you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee!
And these few precepts in thy memory
See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel;
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
And they in France of the best rank and station
Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
This above all: to thine ownself be true,
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
The time invites you; go; your servants tend.
Farewell, Ophelia; and remember well
What I have said to you.
'Tis in my memory lock'd,
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
Farewell.
What is't, Ophelia, be hath said to you?
So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
Marry, well bethought:
'Tis told me, he hath very oft of late
Given private time to you; and you yourself
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous:
If it be so, as so 'tis put on me,
And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
You do not understand yourself so clearly
As it behoves my daughter and your honour.
What is between you? give me up the truth.
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Of his affection to me.
Affection! pooh! you speak like a green girl,
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby;
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
My lord, he hath importuned me with love
In honourable fashion.
Ay, fashion you may call it; go to, go to.
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both,
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
You must not take for fire. From this time
Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence;
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Believe so much in him, that he is young
And with a larger tether may he walk
Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
Not of that dye which their investments show,
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
The better to beguile. This is for all:
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth,
Have you so slander any moment leisure,
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
Look to't, I charge you: come your ways.
I shall obey, my lord.
The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
It is a nipping and an eager air.
What hour now?
I think it lacks of twelve.
No, it is struck.
Indeed? I heard it not: then it draws near the season
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
A flourish of trumpets, and ordnance shot off, within
What does this mean, my lord?
The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
The triumph of his pledge.
Is it a custom?
Ay, marry, is't:
But to my mind, though I am native here
And to the manner born, it is a custom
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
This heavy-headed revel east and west
Makes us traduced and tax'd of other nations:
They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
So, oft it chances in particular men,
That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
As, in their birth--wherein they are not guilty,
Since nature cannot choose his origin--
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
The form of plausive manners, that these men,
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
As infinite as man may undergo--
Shall in the general censure take corruption
From that particular fault: the dram of eale
Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
To his own scandal.
Look, my lord, it comes!
Enter 
Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Thou comest in such a questionable shape
That I will speak to thee: I'll call thee Hamlet,
King, father, royal Dane: O, answer me!
Let me not burst in ignorance; but tell
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws,
To cast thee up again. What may this mean,
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel
Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
Making night hideous; and we fools of nature
So horridly to shake our disposition
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
 beckons 
It beckons you to go away with it,
As if it some impartment did desire
To you alone.
Look, with what courteous action
It waves you to a more removed ground:
But do not go with it.
No, by no means.
It will not speak; then I will follow it.
Do not, my lord.
Why, what should be the fear?
I do not set my life in a pin's fee;
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
Being a thing immortal as itself?
It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
And there assume some other horrible form,
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
And draw you into madness? think of it:
The very place puts toys of desperation,
Without more motive, into every brain
That looks so many fathoms to the sea
And hears it roar beneath.
It waves me still.
Go on; I'll follow thee.
You shall not go, my lord.
Hold off your hands.
Be ruled; you shall not go.
My fate cries out,
And makes each petty artery in this body
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!
I say, away! Go on; I'll follow thee.
Exeunt  and 
He waxes desperate with imagination.
Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him.
Have after. To what issue will this come?
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
Heaven will direct it.
Nay, let's follow him.
Exeunt
Where wilt thou lead me? speak; I'll go no further.
Mark me.
I will.
My hour is almost come,
When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
Must render up myself.
Alas, poor ghost!
Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
To what I shall unfold.
Speak; I am bound to hear.
So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
What?
I am thy father's spirit,
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
And for the day confined to fast in fires,
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
Thy knotted and combined locks to part
And each particular hair to stand on end,
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine:
But this eternal blazon must not be
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
O God!
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
Murder!
Murder most foul, as in the best it is;
But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
May sweep to my revenge.
I find thee apt;
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear:
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
A serpent stung me; so the whole ear of Denmark
Is by a forged process of my death
Rankly abused: but know, thou noble youth,
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
Now wears his crown.
O my prophetic soul! My uncle!
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts,--
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen:
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there!
From me, whose love was of that dignity
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
To those of mine!
But virtue, as it never will be moved,
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
And prey on garbage.
But, soft! methinks I scent the morning air;
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
My custom always of the afternoon,
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,
And in the porches of my ears did pour
The leperous distilment; whose effect
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
And with a sudden vigour doth posset
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
All my smooth body.
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd:
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
With all my imperfections on my head:
O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once!
The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart;
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
Yea, from the table of my memory
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
That youth and observation copied there;
And thy commandment all alone shall live
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Unmix'd with baser matter: yes, by heaven!
O most pernicious woman!
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
My tables,--meet it is I set it down,
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
Writing
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
It is 'Adieu, adieu! remember me.'
I have sworn 't.
[Within] My lord, my lord,--
[Within] Lord Hamlet,--
[Within] Heaven secure him!
So be it!
[Within] Hillo, ho, ho, my lord!
Hillo, ho, ho, boy! come, bird, come.
Enter  and 
How is't, my noble lord?
What news, my lord?
O, wonderful!
Good my lord, tell it.
No; you'll reveal it.
Not I, my lord, by heaven.
Nor I, my lord.
How say you, then; would heart of man once think it?
But you'll be secret?
Ay, by heaven, my lord.
There's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark
But he's an arrant knave.
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
To tell us this.
Why, right; you are i' the right;
And so, without more circumstance at all,
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
You, as your business and desire shall point you;
For every man has business and desire,
Such as it is; and for mine own poor part,
Look you, I'll go pray.
These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
I'm sorry they offend you, heartily;
Yes, 'faith heartily.
There's no offence, my lord.
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
For your desire to know what is between us,
O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
As you are friends, scholars and soldiers,
Give me one poor request.
What is't, my lord? we will.
Never make known what you have seen to-night.
My lord, we will not.
Nay, but swear't.
In faith,
My lord, not I.
Nor I, my lord, in faith.
Upon my sword.
We have sworn, my lord, already.
Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
[Beneath] Swear.
Ah, ha, boy! say'st thou so? art thou there,
truepenny?
Come on--you hear this fellow in the cellarage--
Consent to swear.
Propose the oath, my lord.
Never to speak of this that you have seen,
Swear by my sword.
[Beneath] Swear.
Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.
Come hither, gentlemen,
And lay your hands again upon my sword:
Never to speak of this that you have heard,
Swear by my sword.
[Beneath] Swear.
Well said, old mole! canst work i' the earth so fast?
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends.
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
To put an antic disposition on,
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
With arms encumber'd thus, or this headshake,
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
That you know aught of me: this not to do,
So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
[Beneath] Swear.
Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
They swear
So, gentlemen,
With all my love I do commend me to you:
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
May do, to express his love and friending to you,
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
That ever I was born to set it right!
Nay, come, let's go together.
Exeunt
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
I will, my lord.
You shall do marvellous wisely, good Reynaldo,
Before you visit him, to make inquire
Of his behavior.
My lord, I did intend it.
Marry, well said; very well said. Look you, sir,
Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
What company, at what expense; and finding
By this encompassment and drift of question
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
Than your particular demands will touch it:
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
And in part him: ' do you mark this, Reynaldo?
Ay, very well, my lord.
'And in part him; but' you may say 'not well:
But, if't be he I mean, he's very wild;
Addicted so and so:' and there put on him
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
But, sir, such wanton, wild and usual slips
As are companions noted and most known
To youth and liberty.
As gaming, my lord.
Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Drabbing: you may go so far.
My lord, that would dishonour him.
'Faith, no; as you may season it in the charge
You must not put another scandal on him,
That he is open to incontinency;
That's not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
Of general assault.
But, my good lord,--
Wherefore should you do this?
Ay, my lord,
I would know that.
Marry, sir, here's my drift;
And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
You laying these slight sullies on my son,
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working, Mark you,
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
He closes with you in this consequence;
'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman,'
According to the phrase or the addition
Of man and country.
Very good, my lord.
And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
about to say? By the mass, I was about to say
something: where did I leave?
At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,'
and 'gentleman.'
At 'closes in the consequence,' ay, marry;
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say,
There was a' gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
There falling out at tennis:' or perchance,
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
See you now;
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth:
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
By indirections find directions out:
So by my former lecture and advice,
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
My lord, I have.
God be wi' you; fare you well.
Good my lord!
Observe his inclination in yourself.
I shall, my lord.
And let him ply his music.
Well, my lord.
Farewell!
How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
O, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
With what, i' the name of God?
My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced;
No hat upon his head; his stockings foul'd,
Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle;
Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
And with a look so piteous in purport
As if he had been loosed out of hell
To speak of horrors,--he comes before me.
Mad for thy love?
My lord, I do not know;
But truly, I do fear it.
What said he?
He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
He falls to such perusal of my face
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so;
At last, a little shaking of mine arm
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd,
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes;
For out o' doors he went without their helps,
And, to the last, bended their light on me.
Come, go with me: I will go seek the king.
This is the very ecstasy of love,
Whose violent property fordoes itself
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
As oft as any passion under heaven
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
No, my good lord, but, as you did command,
I did repel his fetters and denied
His access to me.
That hath made him mad.
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
I had not quoted him: I fear'd he did but trifle,
And meant to wreck thee; but, beshrew my jealousy!
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
As it is common for the younger sort
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
This must be known; which, being kept close, might
move
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
Exeunt
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
The need we have to use you did provoke
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Of Hamlet's transformation; so call it,
Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
So much from the understanding of himself,
I cannot dream of: I entreat you both,
That, being of so young days brought up with him,
And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
Some little time: so by your companies
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
So much as from occasion you may glean,
Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you;
And sure I am two men there are not living
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To show us so much gentry and good will
As to expend your time with us awhile,
For the supply and profit of our hope,
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
As fits a king's remembrance.
Both your majesties
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
Put your dread pleasures more into command
Than to entreaty.
But we both obey,
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent
To lay our service freely at your feet,
To be commanded.
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz:
And I beseech you instantly to visit
My too much changed son. Go, some of you,
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
Heavens make our presence and our practises
Pleasant and helpful to him!
Ay, amen!
The ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Are joyfully return'd.
Thou still hast been the father of good news.
Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege,
I hold my duty, as I hold my soul,
Both to my God and to my gracious king:
And I do think, or else this brain of mine
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
As it hath used to do, that I have found
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
O, speak of that; that do I long to hear.
Give first admittance to the ambassadors;
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
I doubt it is no other but the main;
His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
Well, we shall sift him.
Welcome, my good friends!
Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?
Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
But, better look'd into, he truly found
It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
That so his sickness, age and impotence
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys;
Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
Makes vow before his uncle never more
To give the assay of arms against your majesty.
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee,
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
So levied as before, against the Polack:
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
Giving a paper
That it might please you to give quiet pass
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
On such regards of safety and allowance
As therein are set down.
It likes us well;
And at our more consider'd time well read,
Answer, and think upon this business.
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
Most welcome home!
This business is well ended.
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
What majesty should be, what duty is,
Why day is day, night night, and time is time,
Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
I will be brief: your noble son is mad:
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
But let that go.
More matter, with less art.
Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
Mad let us grant him, then: and now remains
That we find out the cause of this effect,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
For this effect defective comes by cause:
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
I have a daughter--have while she is mine--
Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise.
Reads
'To the celestial and my soul's idol, the most
beautified Ophelia,'--
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is
a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
Reads
'In her excellent white bosom, these, & c.'
Came this from Hamlet to her?
Good madam, stay awhile; I will be faithful.
Reads
'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
Doubt that the sun doth move;
Doubt truth to be a liar;
But never doubt I love.
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers;
I have not art to reckon my groans: but that
I love thee best, O most best, believe it. Adieu.
'Thine evermore most dear lady, whilst
this machine is to him, .'
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
And more above, hath his solicitings,
As they fell out by time, by means and place,
All given to mine ear.
But how hath she
Received his love?
What do you think of me?
As of a man faithful and honourable.
I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
As I perceived it, I must tell you that,
Before my daughter told me--what might you,
Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight;
What might you think? No, I went round to work,
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star;
This must not be:' and then I precepts gave her,
That she should lock herself from his resort,
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice;
And he, repulsed--a short tale to make--
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
And all we mourn for.
Do you think 'tis this?
It may be, very likely.
Hath there been such a time--I'd fain know that--
That I have positively said 'Tis so,'
When it proved otherwise?
Not that I know.
[Pointing to his head and shoulder]
Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
If circumstances lead me, I will find
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
Within the centre.
How may we try it further?
You know, sometimes he walks four hours together
Here in the lobby.
So he does indeed.
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
Be you and I behind an arras then;
Mark the encounter: if he love her not
And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
Let me be no assistant for a state,
But keep a farm and carters.
We will try it.
But, look, where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
Away, I do beseech you, both away:
I'll board him presently.
Exeunt , , and Attendants
Enter , reading
O, give me leave:
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
Well, God-a-mercy.
Do you know me, my lord?
Excellent well; you are a fishmonger.
Not I, my lord.
Then I would you were so honest a man.
Honest, my lord!
Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
one man picked out of ten thousand.
That's very true, my lord.
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a
god kissing carrion,--Have you a daughter?
I have, my lord.
Let her not walk i' the sun: conception is a
blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
Friend, look to 't.
[Aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my
daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and
truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
love; very near this. I'll speak to him again.
What do you read, my lord?
Words, words, words.
What is the matter, my lord?
Between who?
I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
Slanders, sir: for the satirical rogue says here
that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
wit, together with most weak hams: all which, sir,
though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet
I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
you could go backward.
[Aside] Though this be madness, yet there is method
in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
Into my grave.
Indeed, that is out o' the air.
Aside
How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness
that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity
could not so prosperously be delivered of. I will
leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
meeting between him and my daughter.--My honourable
lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will
more willingly part withal: except my life, except
my life, except my life
Fare you well, my lord.
These tedious old fools!
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet; there he is.
God save you, sir!
My honoured lord!
My most dear lord!
My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
As the indifferent children of the earth.
Happy, in that we are not over-happy;
On fortune's cap we are not the very button.
Nor the soles of her shoe?
Neither, my lord.
Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of
her favours?
'Faith, her privates we.
In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she
is a strumpet. What's the news?
None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
Then is doomsday near: but your news is not true.
Let me question more in particular: what have you,
my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
that she sends you to prison hither?
Prison, my lord!
Denmark's a prison.
Then is the world one.
A goodly one; in which there are many confines,
wards and dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst.
We think not so, my lord.
Why, then, 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
it is a prison.
Why then, your ambition makes it one; 'tis too
narrow for your mind.
O God, I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
have bad dreams.
Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very
substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
A dream itself is but a shadow.
Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a
quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and
outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we
to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason.
We'll wait upon you.
No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest
of my servants, for, to speak to you like an honest
man, I am most dreadfully attended. But, in the
beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I
thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.
What should we say, my lord?
Why, any thing, but to the purpose. You were sent
for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks
which your modesties have not craft enough to colour:
I know the good king and queen have sent for you.
To what end, my lord?
That you must teach me. But let me conjure you, by
the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
love, and by what more dear a better proposer could
charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
whether you were sent for, or no?
[Aside to GUILDENSTERN] What say you?
[Aside] Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you
love me, hold not off.
My lord, we were sent for.
I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king
and queen moult no feather. I have of late--but
wherefore I know not--lost all my mirth, forgone all
custom of exercises; and indeed it goes so heavily
with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most
excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave
o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted
with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.
What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the
world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not
me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
you seem to say so.
My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
Why did you laugh then, when I said 'man delights not me'?
To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
lenten entertainment the players shall receive from
you: we coted them on the way; and hither are they
coming, to offer you service.
He that plays the king shall be welcome; his majesty
shall have tribute of me; the adventurous knight
shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not
sigh gratis; the humourous man shall end his part
in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
lungs are tickled o' the sere; and the lady shall
say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
for't. What players are they?
Even those you were wont to take delight in, the
tragedians of the city.
How chances it they travel? their residence, both
in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the
late innovation.
Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was
in the city? are they so followed?
No, indeed, are they not.
How comes it? do they grow rusty?
Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but
there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
that cry out on the top of question, and are most
tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
fashion, and so berattle the common stages--so they
call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of
goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
What, are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
longer than they can sing? will they not say
afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
players--as it is most like, if their means are no
better--their writers do them wrong, to make them
exclaim against their own succession?
'Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and
the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to
controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
for argument, unless the poet and the player went to
cuffs in the question.
Is't possible?
O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Do the boys carry it away?
Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.
It is not very strange; for mine uncle is king of
Denmark, and those that would make mows at him while
my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
'Sblood, there is something in this more than
natural, if philosophy could find it out.
Flourish of trumpets within
There are the players. 
Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands,
come then: the appurtenance of welcome is fashion
and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb,
lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you,
must show fairly outward, should more appear like
entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my
uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
In what, my dear lord?
I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is
southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
Well be with you, gentlemen!
Hark you, Guildenstern; and you too: at each ear a
hearer: that great baby you see there is not yet
out of his swaddling-clouts.
Happily he's the second time come to them; for they
say an old man is twice a child.
I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players;
mark it. You say right, sir: o' Monday morning;
'twas so indeed.
My lord, I have news to tell you.
My lord, I have news to tell you.
When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
The actors are come hither, my lord.
Buz, buz!
Upon mine honour,--
Then came each actor on his ass,--
The best actors in the world, either for tragedy,
comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-
comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
liberty, these are the only men.
O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
What a treasure had he, my lord?
Why,
'One fair daughter and no more,
The which he loved passing well.'
[Aside] Still on my daughter.
Am I not i' the right, old Jephthah?
If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter
that I love passing well.
Nay, that follows not.
What follows, then, my lord?
Why,
'As by lot, God wot,'
and then, you know,
'It came to pass, as most like it was,'--
the first row of the pious chanson will show you
more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
Enter four or five Players
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all. I am glad
to see thee well. Welcome, good friends. O, my old
friend! thy face is valenced since I saw thee last:
comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
lady and mistress! By'r lady, your ladyship is
nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the
altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like
apiece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en
to't like French falconers, fly at any thing we see:
we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a taste
of your quality; come, a passionate speech.
First Player
What speech, my lord?
I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
never acted; or, if it was, not above once; for the
play, I remember, pleased not the million; 'twas
caviare to the general: but it was--as I received
it, and others, whose judgments in such matters
cried in the top of mine--an excellent play, well
digested in the scenes, set down with as much
modesty as cunning. I remember, one said there
were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
indict the author of affectation; but called it an
honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very
much more handsome than fine. One speech in it I
chiefly loved: 'twas Aeneas' tale to Dido; and
thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
Priam's slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin
at this line: let me see, let me see--
'The rugged Pyrrhus, like the Hyrcanian beast,'--
it is not so:--it begins with Pyrrhus:--
'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
With heraldry more dismal; head to foot
Now is he total gules; horridly trick'd
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
That lend a tyrannous and damned light
To their lord's murder: roasted in wrath and fire,
And thus o'er-sized with coagulate gore,
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
So, proceed you.
'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and
good discretion.
First Player
'Anon he finds him
Striking too short at Greeks; his antique sword,
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for, lo! his sword,
Which was declining on the milky head
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
And like a neutral to his will and matter,
Did nothing.
But, as we often see, against some storm,
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
The bold winds speechless and the orb below
As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
Doth rend the region, so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work;
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
On Mars's armour forged for proof eterne
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
Now falls on Priam.
Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
In general synod 'take away her power;
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
As low as to the fiends!'
This is too long.
It shall to the barber's, with your beard. Prithee,
say on: he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he
sleeps: say on: come to Hecuba.
First Player
'But who, O, who had seen the mobled queen--'
'The mobled queen?'
That's good; 'mobled queen' is good.
First Player
'Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins,
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have
pronounced:
But if the gods themselves did see her then
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
The instant burst of clamour that she made,
Unless things mortal move them not at all,
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
And passion in the gods.'
Look, whether he has not turned his colour and has
tears in's eyes. Pray you, no more.
'Tis well: I'll have thee speak out the rest soon.
Good my lord, will you see the players well
bestowed? Do you hear, let them be well used; for
they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
time: after your death you were better have a bad
epitaph than their ill report while you live.
My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
God's bodykins, man, much better: use every man
after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less
they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
Take them in.
Come, sirs.
Dost thou hear me, old friend; can you play the
Murder of Gonzago?
First Player
Ay, my lord.
We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need,
study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which
I would set down and insert in't, could you not?
First Player
Ay, my lord.
Very well. Follow that lord; and look you mock him
not.
First Player
My good friends, I'll leave you till night: you are
welcome to Elsinore.
Good my lord!
Ay, so, God be wi' ye;
Now I am alone.
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
That from her working all his visage wann'd,
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
With forms to his conceit? and all for nothing!
For Hecuba!
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak,
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
And can say nothing; no, not for a king,
Upon whose property and most dear life
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Plucks off my beard, and blows it in my face?
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
As deep as to the lungs? who does me this?
Ha!
'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
I should have fatted all the region kites
With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
O, vengeance!
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words,
And fall a-cursing, like a very drab,
A scullion!
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! I have heard
That guilty creatures sitting at a play
Have by the very cunning of the scene
Been struck so to the soul that presently
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
Play something like the murder of my father
Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
I'll tent him to the quick: if he but blench,
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
May be the devil: and the devil hath power
To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
As he is very potent with such spirits,
Abuses me to damn me: I'll have grounds
More relative than this: the play 's the thing
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king
And can you, by no drift of circumstance,
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
He does confess he feels himself distracted;
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
When we would bring him on to some confession
Of his true state.
Did he receive you well?
Most like a gentleman.
But with much forcing of his disposition.
Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
Most free in his reply.
Did you assay him?
To any pastime?
Madam, it so fell out, that certain players
We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him;
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
To hear of it: they are about the court,
And, as I think, they have already order
This night to play before him.
'Tis most true:
And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
To hear and see the matter.
With all my heart; and it doth much content me
To hear him so inclined.
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
Affront Ophelia:
Her father and myself, lawful espials,
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
We may of their encounter frankly judge,
And gather by him, as he is behaved,
If 't be the affliction of his love or no
That thus he suffers for.
I shall obey you.
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
That your good beauties be the happy cause
Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
To both your honours.
Madam, I wish it may.
Ophelia, walk you here. Gracious, so please you,
We will bestow ourselves.
To 
Read on this book;
That show of such an exercise may colour
Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
And pious action we do sugar o'er
The devil himself.
[Aside] O, 'tis too true!
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
Than is my deed to my most painted word:
O heavy burthen!
I hear him coming: let's withdraw, my lord.
To be, or not to be, that is the question,
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
Must give us pause: there's the respect
That makes calamity of so long life;
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
The insolence of office and the spurns
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
When he himself might his quietus make
With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
But that the dread of something after death,
The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
And thus the native hue of resolution
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
And enterprises of great pith and moment
With this regard their currents turn awry,
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
Be all my sins remember'd.
Good my lord,
How does your honour for this many a day?
I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
My lord, I have remembrances of yours,
That I have longed long to re-deliver;
I pray you, now receive them.
No, not I;
I never gave you aught.
My honour'd lord, you know right well you did;
And, with them, words of so sweet breath composed
As made the things more rich: their perfume lost,
Take these again; for to the noble mind
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
There, my lord.
Ha, ha! are you honest?
My lord?
Are you fair?
What means your lordship?
That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should
admit no discourse to your beauty.
Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than
with honesty?
Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner
transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the
force of honesty can translate beauty into his
likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
time gives it proof. I did love you once.
Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
You should not have believed me; for virtue cannot
so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
it: I loved you not.
I was the more deceived.
Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a
breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest;
but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
were better my mother had not borne me: I am very
proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
my beck than I have thoughts to put them in,
imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves,
all; believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery.
Where's your father?
At home, my lord.
Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the
fool no where but in's own house. Farewell.
O, help him, you sweet heavens!
If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for
thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt needs
marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough
what monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go,
and quickly too. Farewell.
O heavenly powers, restore him!
I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God
has given you one face, and you make yourselves
another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and
nick-name God's creatures, and make your wantonness
your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath
made me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages:
those that are married already, all but one, shall
live; the rest shall keep as they are. To a
nunnery, go.
O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue, sword;
The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
Love! his affections do not that way tend;
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul,
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
I have in quick determination
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England,
For the demand of our neglected tribute
Haply the seas and countries different
With variable objects shall expel
This something-settled matter in his heart,
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
It shall do well: but yet do I believe
The origin and commencement of his grief
Sprung from neglected love. How now, Ophelia!
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said;
We heard it all. My lord, do as you please;
But, if you hold it fit, after the play
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
To show his grief: let her be round with him;
And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
To England send him, or confine him where
Your wisdom best shall think.
Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to
you, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,
as many of your players do, I had as lief the
town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently;
for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget
a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
for the most part are capable of nothing but
inexplicable dumbshows and noise: I would have such
a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it
out-herods Herod: pray you, avoid it.
I warrant your honour.
Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion
be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
word to the action; with this special o'erstep not
the modesty of nature: for any thing so overdone is
from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the
first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the
mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature,
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of
the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful
laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the
censure of the which one must in your allowance
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be
players that I have seen play, and heard others
praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
that, neither having the accent of Christians nor
the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of
nature's journeymen had made men and not made them
well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
First Player
I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us,
sir.
O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
your clowns speak no more than is set down for them;
for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to
set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh
too; though, in the mean time, some necessary
question of the play be then to be considered:
that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambition
in the fool that uses it. Go, make you ready.
How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
And the queen too, and that presently
Will you two help to hasten them?
We will, my lord.
What ho! Horatio!
Here, sweet lord, at your service.
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
As e'er my conversation coped withal.
O, my dear lord,--
Nay, do not think I flatter;
For what advancement may I hope from thee
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits,
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
And could of men distinguish, her election
Hath seal'd thee for herself; for thou hast been
As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
Hast ta'en with equal thanks: and blest are those
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
There is a play to-night before the king;
One scene of it comes near the circumstance
Which I have told thee of my father's death:
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
And my imaginations are as foul
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
And after we will both our judgments join
In censure of his seeming.
Well, my lord:
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
They are coming to the play; I must be idle:
How fares our cousin Hamlet?
Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish: I eat
the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet; these words
are not mine.
No, nor mine now.
My lord, you played once i' the university, you say?
That did I, my lord; and was accounted a good actor.
What did you enact?
I did enact Julius Caesar: I was killed i' the
Capitol; Brutus killed me.
It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf
there. Be the players ready?
Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.
Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.
[To ] O, ho! do you mark that?
Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
Lying down at 's feet
No, my lord.
I mean, my head upon your lap?
Ay, my lord.
Do you think I meant country matters?
I think nothing, my lord.
That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
What is, my lord?
Nothing.
You are merry, my lord.
Who, I?
Ay, my lord.
O God, your only jig-maker. What should a man do
but be merry? for, look you, how cheerfully my
mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.
So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for
I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens! die two
months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half
a year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches,
then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with
the hobby-horse, whose epitaph is 'For, O, for, O,
the hobby-horse is forgot.'
Hautboys play. The dumb-show enters
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; 
the Queen embracing him, and he her.
She kneels, and makes show of protestation unto him.
He takes her up, and declines his head upon her neck: 
lays him down upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing him asleep, 
leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his crown, 
kisses it, and pours poison in the King's ears, and exit. 
The Queen returns; finds the King dead, and makes passionate action. 
The Poisoner, with some two or three Mutes, 
comes in again, seeming to lament with her. 
The dead body is carried away. 
The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts: 
she seems loath and unwilling awhile, 
but in the end accepts his love
What means this, my lord?
Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.
Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
We shall know by this fellow: the players cannot
keep counsel; they'll tell all.
Will he tell us what this show meant?
Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you
ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
You are naught, you are naught: I'll mark the play.
Prologue
For us, and for our tragedy,
Here stooping to your clemency,
We beg your hearing patiently.
Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
'Tis brief, my lord.
As woman's love.
Enter two Players, King and Queen
Player King
Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
Player Queen
So many journeys may the sun and moon
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
But, woe is me, you are so sick of late,
So far from cheer and from your former state,
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
For women's fear and love holds quantity;
In neither aught, or in extremity.
Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
Player King
'Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
My operant powers their functions leave to do:
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
Honour'd, beloved; and haply one as kind
For husband shalt thou--
Player Queen
O, confound the rest!
Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
In second husband let me be accurst!
None wed the second but who kill'd the first.
[Aside] Wormwood, wormwood.
Player Queen
The instances that second marriage move
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
A second time I kill my husband dead,
When second husband kisses me in bed.
Player King
I do believe you think what now you speak;
But what we do determine oft we break.
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;
But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
The violence of either grief or joy
Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;
The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend;
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
Directly seasons him his enemy.
But, orderly to end where I begun,
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
That our devices still are overthrown;
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
Player Queen
Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light!
Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
To desperation turn my trust and hope!
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Meet what I would have well and it destroy!
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
If she should break it now!
Player King
'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile;
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
The tedious day with sleep.
Sleeps
Sleep rock thy brain,
And never come mischance between us twain!
Madam, how like you this play?
The lady protests too much, methinks.
O, but she'll keep her word.
Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in 't?
No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest; no offence
i' the world.
What do you call the play?
The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play
is the image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago is
the duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see
anon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'
that? your majesty and we that have free souls, it
touches us not: let the galled jade wince, our
withers are unwrung.
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
I could interpret between you and your love, if I
could see the puppets dallying.
You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
Still better, and worse.
So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;
pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:
'the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge.'
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
Thy natural magic and dire property,
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
Pours the poison into the sleeper's ears
He poisons him i' the garden for's estate. His
name's Gonzago: the story is extant, and writ in
choice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderer
gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
The king rises.
What, frighted with false fire!
How fares my lord?
Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
The hart ungalled play;
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
So runs the world away.
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two
Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
Half a share.
A whole one, I.
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
This realm dismantled was
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
A very, very--pajock.
You might have rhymed.
O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a
thousand pound. Didst perceive?
Very well, my lord.
Upon the talk of the poisoning?
I did very well note him.
Ah, ha! Come, some music! come, the recorders!
For if the king like not the comedy,
Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
Come, some music!
Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
Sir, a whole history.
The king, sir,--
Ay, sir, what of him?
Is in his retirement marvellous distempered.
With drink, sir?
No, my lord, rather with choler.
Your wisdom should show itself more richer to
signify this to his doctor; for, for me to put him
to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far
more choler.
Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame and
start not so wildly from my affair.
I am tame, sir: pronounce.
The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of
spirit, hath sent me to you.
You are welcome.
Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right
breed. If it shall please you to make me a
wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
shall be the end of my business.
Sir, I cannot.
What, my lord?
Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseased: but,
sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command;
or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--
Then thus she says; your behavior hath struck her
into amazement and admiration.
O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother! But
is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's
admiration? Impart.
She desires to speak with you in her closet, ere you
go to bed.
We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have
you any further trade with us?
My lord, you once did love me.
So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.
Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? you
do, surely, bar the door upon your own liberty, if
you deny your griefs to your friend.
Sir, I lack advancement.
How can that be, when you have the voice of the king
himself for your succession in Denmark?
Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverb
is something musty.
Re-enter Players with recorders
O, the recorders! let me see one. To withdraw with
you:--why do you go about to recover the wind of me,
as if you would drive me into a toil?
O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too
unmannerly.
I do not well understand that. Will you play upon
this pipe?
My lord, I cannot.
I pray you.
Believe me, I cannot.
I do beseech you.
I know no touch of it, my lord.
'Tis as easy as lying: govern these ventages with
your lingers and thumb, give it breath with your
mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
Look you, these are the stops.
But these cannot I command to any utterance of
harmony; I have not the skill.
Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of
me! You would play upon me; you would seem to know
my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my
mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to
the top of my compass: and there is much music,
excellent voice, in this little organ; yet cannot
you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
easier to be played on than a pipe? Call me what
instrument you will, though you can fret me, yet you
cannot play upon me.
God bless you, sir!
My lord, the queen would speak with you, and
presently.
Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
Methinks it is like a weasel.
It is backed like a weasel.
Or like a whale?
Very like a whale.
Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
me to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.
I will say so.
By and by is easily said.
Leave me, friends.
Exeunt all but 
Tis now the very witching time of night,
When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out
Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
And do such bitter business as the day
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
I will speak daggers to her, but use none;
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;
How in my words soever she be shent,
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
And he to England shall along with you:
The terms of our estate may not endure
Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
Out of his lunacies.
We will ourselves provide:
Most holy and religious fear it is
To keep those many many bodies safe
That live and feed upon your majesty.
The single and peculiar life is bound,
With all the strength and armour of the mind,
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest
The lives of many. The cease of majesty
Dies not alone; but, like a gulf, doth draw
What's near it with it: it is a massy wheel,
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
Are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
Which now goes too free-footed.
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet:
Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
To hear the process; and warrant she'll tax him home:
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege:
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed,
And tell you what I know.
Thanks, dear my lord.
O, my offence is rank it smells to heaven;
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
A brother's murder. Pray can I not,
Though inclination be as sharp as will:
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
And, like a man to double business bound,
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
But to confront the visage of offence?
And what's in prayer but this two-fold force,
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
Of those effects for which I did the murder,
My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
In the corrupted currents of this world
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
Buys out the law: but 'tis not so above;
There is no shuffling, there the action lies
In his true nature; and we ourselves compell'd,
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
To give in evidence. What then? what rests?
Try what repentance can: what can it not?
Yet what can it when one can not repent?
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay!
Bow, stubborn knees; and, heart with strings of steel,
Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven;
And so am I revenged. That would be scann'd:
A villain kills my father; and for that,
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
To heaven.
O, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
He took my father grossly, full of bread;
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
And how his audit stands who knows save heaven?
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
'Tis heavy with him: and am I then revenged,
To take him in the purging of his soul,
When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
No!
Up, sword; and know thou a more horrid hent:
When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed;
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
That has no relish of salvation in't;
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
[Rising] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below:
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
He will come straight. Look you lay home to him:
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
Much heat and him. I'll sconce me even here.
Pray you, be round with him.
[Within] Mother, mother, mother!
I'll warrant you,
Fear me not: withdraw, I hear him coming.
POLONIUS hides behind the arras
Now, mother, what's the matter?
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
Mother, you have my father much offended.
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Why, how now, Hamlet!
What's the matter now?
Have you forgot me?
No, by the rood, not so:
You are the queen, your husband's brother's wife;
And--would it were not so!--you are my mother.
Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge;
You go not till I set you up a glass
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me?
Help, help, ho!
[Behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
[Drawing] How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
Makes a pass through the arras
[Behind] O, I am slain!
Falls and dies
O me, what hast thou done?
Nay, I know not:
Is it the king?
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
A bloody deed! almost as bad, good mother,
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
As kill a king!
Ay, lady, 'twas my word.
Lifts up the array and discovers POLONIUS
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune;
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall,
If it be made of penetrable stuff,
If damned custom have not brass'd it so
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
What have I done, that thou darest wag thy tongue
In noise so rude against me?
Such an act
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
From the fair forehead of an innocent love
And sets a blister there, makes marriage-vows
As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
As from the body of contraction plucks
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
A rhapsody of words: heaven's face doth glow:
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
Is thought-sick at the act.
Ay me, what act,
That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?
Look here, upon this picture, and on this,
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
See, what a grace was seated on this brow;
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
A station like the herald Mercury
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
A combination and a form indeed,
Where every god did seem to set his seal,
To give the world assurance of a man:
This was your husband. Look you now, what follows:
Here is your husband; like a mildew'd ear,
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes?
You cannot call it love; for at your age
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
Else could you not have motion; but sure, that sense
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thrall'd
But it reserved some quantity of choice,
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Could not so mope.
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
Since frost itself as actively doth burn
And reason panders will.
O Hamlet, speak no more:
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul;
And there I see such black and grained spots
As will not leave their tinct.
Nay, but to live
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Over the nasty sty,--
O, speak to me no more;
These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears;
No more, sweet Hamlet!
A murderer and a villain;
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
And put it in his pocket!
No more!
A king of shreds and patches,--
Save me, and hover o'er me with your wings,
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
Alas, he's mad!
Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
Do not forget: this visitation
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
O, step between her and her fighting soul:
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works:
Speak to her, Hamlet.
How is it with you, lady?
Alas, how is't with you,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy
And with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
Sprinkle cool patience. Whereon do you look?
On him, on him! Look you, how pale he glares!
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
Would make them capable. Do not look upon me;
Lest with this piteous action you convert
My stern effects: then what I have to do
Will want true colour; tears perchance for blood.
To whom do you speak this?
Do you see nothing there?
Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
Nor did you nothing hear?
No, nothing but ourselves.
Why, look you there! look, how it steals away!
My father, in his habit as he lived!
Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
This the very coinage of your brain:
This bodiless creation ecstasy
Is very cunning in.
Ecstasy!
My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
And I the matter will re-word; which madness
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Lay not that mattering unction to your soul,
That not your trespass, but my madness speaks:
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
And do not spread the compost on the weeds,
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
For in the fatness of these pursy times
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg,
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
O, throw away the worser part of it,
And live the purer with the other half.
Good night: but go not to mine uncle's bed;
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
Of habits devil, is angel yet in this,
That to the use of actions fair and good
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
To the next abstinence: the next more easy;
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
And either [ ] the devil, or throw him out
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night:
And when you are desirous to be bless'd,
I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord,
Pointing to POLONIUS
I do repent: but heaven hath pleased it so,
To punish me with this and this with me,
That I must be their scourge and minister.
I will bestow him, and will answer well
The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
I must be cruel, only to be kind:
Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
One word more, good lady.
What shall I do?
Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
That I essentially am not in madness,
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
For who, that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
Unpeg the basket on the house's top.
Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
To try conclusions, in the basket creep,
And break your own neck down.
Be thou assured, if words be made of breath,
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
What thou hast said to me.
I must to England; you know that?
Alack,
I had forgot: 'tis so concluded on.
There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way,
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
For 'tis the sport to have the engineer
Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
But I will delve one yard below their mines,
And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
When in one line two crafts directly meet.
This man shall set me packing:
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.
Mother, good night. Indeed this counsellor
Is now most still, most secret and most grave,
Who was in life a foolish prating knave.
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Good night, mother.
There's matter in these sighs, these profound heaves:
You must translate: 'tis fit we understand them.
Where is your son?
Bestow this place on us a little while.
Ah, my good lord, what have I seen to-night!
What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit,
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Whips out his rapier, cries, 'A rat, a rat!'
And, in this brainish apprehension, kills
The unseen good old man.
O heavy deed!
It had been so with us, had we been there:
His liberty is full of threats to all;
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
It will be laid to us, whose providence
Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
This mad young man: but so much was our love,
We would not understand what was most fit;
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
To draw apart the body he hath kill'd:
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
Among a mineral of metals base,
Shows itself pure; he weeps for what is done.
O Gertrude, come away!
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch,
But we will ship him hence: and this vile deed
We must, with all our majesty and skill,
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends;
And let them know, both what we mean to do,
And what's untimely done. O, come away!
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
[Within] Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
What noise? who calls on Hamlet?
O, here they come.
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
And bear it to the chapel.
Do not believe it.
Believe what?
That I can keep your counsel and not mine own.
Besides, to be demanded of a sponge! what
replication should be made by the son of a king?
Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
Ay, sir, that soaks up the king's countenance, his
rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
king best service in the end: he keeps them, like
an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouthed, to
be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
shall be dry again.
I understand you not, my lord.
I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a
foolish ear.
My lord, you must tell us where the body is, and go
with us to the king.
The body is with the king, but the king is not with
the body. The king is a thing--
A thing, my lord!
Of nothing: bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
He's loved of the distracted multitude,
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
And where tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd,
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
This sudden sending him away must seem
Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
By desperate appliance are relieved,
Or not at all.
Enter 
How now! what hath befall'n?
Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
We cannot get from him.
But where is he?
Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Bring him before us.
Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.
Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
At supper.
At supper! where?
Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certain
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for
maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but
variable service, two dishes, but to one table:
that's the end.
Alas, alas!
A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a
king, and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
What dost you mean by this?
Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
progress through the guts of a beggar.
Where is Polonius?
In heaven; send hither to see: if your messenger
find him not there, seek him i' the other place
yourself. But indeed, if you find him not within
this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
stairs into the lobby.
Go seek him there.
To some Attendants
He will stay till ye come.
Exeunt Attendants
Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,--
Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;
The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
The associates tend, and every thing is bent
For England.
For England!
Ay, Hamlet.
Good.
So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
I see a cherub that sees them. But, come; for
England! Farewell, dear mother.
Thy loving father, Hamlet.
My mother: father and mother is man and wife; man
and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:
Away! for every thing is seal'd and done
That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.
Exeunt  and GUILDENSTERN
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
Pays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly set
Our sovereign process; which imports at full,
By letters congruing to that effect,
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
Go, captain, from me greet the Danish king;
Tell him that, by his licence, Fortinbras
Craves the conveyance of a promised march
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
If that his majesty would aught with us,
We shall express our duty in his eye;
And let him know so.
I will do't, my lord.
Go softly on.
Good sir, whose powers are these?
They are of Norway, sir.
How purposed, sir, I pray you?
Against some part of Poland.
Who commands them, sir?
The nephews to old Norway, Fortinbras.
Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Or for some frontier?
Truly to speak, and with no addition,
We go to gain a little patch of ground
That hath in it no profit but the name.
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Will not debate the question of this straw:
This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
Why the man dies. I humbly thank you, sir.
God be wi' you, sir.
Wilt please you go, my lord?
I'll be with you straight go a little before.
Exeunt all except 
How all occasions do inform against me,
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
If his chief good and market of his time
Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
Sure, he that made us with such large discourse,
Looking before and after, gave us not
That capability and god-like reason
To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Of thinking too precisely on the event,
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
And ever three parts coward, I do not know
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
Sith I have cause and will and strength and means
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me:
Witness this army of such mass and charge
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
To all that fortune, death and danger dare,
Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
Is not to stir without great argument,
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
The imminent death of twenty thousand men,
That, for a fantasy and trick of fame,
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Which is not tomb enough and continent
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
I will not speak with her.
She is importunate, indeed distract:
Her mood will needs be pitied.
What would she have?
She speaks much of her father; says she hears
There's tricks i' the world; and hems, and beats her heart;
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures
yield them,
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds
Let her come in.
To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss:
So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
Where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark?
How now, Ophelia!
[Sings]
How should I your true love know
From another one?
By his cockle hat and staff,
And his sandal shoon.
Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Say you? nay, pray you, mark.
Sings
He is dead and gone, lady,
He is dead and gone;
At his head a grass-green turf,
At his heels a stone.
Nay, but, Ophelia,--
Pray you, mark.
Sings
White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
Alas, look here, my lord.
[Sings]
Larded with sweet flowers
Which bewept to the grave did go
With true-love showers.
How do you, pretty lady?
Well, God 'ild you! They say the owl was a baker's
daughter. Lord, we know what we are, but know not
what we may be. God be at your table!
Conceit upon her father.
Pray you, let's have no words of this; but when they
ask you what it means, say you this:
Sings
To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
All in the morning betime,
And I a maid at your window,
To be your Valentine.
Then up he rose, and donn'd his clothes,
And dupp'd the chamber-door;
Let in the maid, that out a maid
Never departed more.
Pretty Ophelia!
Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't:
Sings
By Gis and by Saint Charity,
Alack, and fie for shame!
Young men will do't, if they come to't;
By cock, they are to blame.
Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
You promised me to wed.
So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
An thou hadst not come to my bed.
How long hath she been thus?
I hope all will be well. We must be patient: but I
cannot choose but weep, to think they should lay him
i' the cold ground. My brother shall know of it:
and so I thank you for your good counsel. Come, my
coach! Good night, ladies; good night, sweet ladies;
good night, good night.
Follow her close; give her good watch,
I pray you.
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
When sorrows come, they come not single spies
But in battalions. First, her father slain:
Next, your son gone; and he most violent author
Of his own just remove: the people muddied,
Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly,
In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
Last, and as much containing as all these,
Her brother is in secret come from France;
Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
Gives me superfluous death.
A noise within
Alack, what noise is this?
Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
Enter another 
What is the matter?
Save yourself, my lord:
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
O'erbears your officers. The rabble call him lord;
And, as the world were now but to begin,
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
The ratifiers and props of every word,
They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
'Laertes shall be king, Laertes king!'
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
The doors are broke.
Noise within
Where is this king? Sirs, stand you all without.
Danes
No, let's come in.
I pray you, give me leave.
Danes
We will, we will.
They retire without the door
I thank you: keep the door. O thou vile king,
Give me my father!
Calmly, good Laertes.
That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard,
Cries cuckold to my father, brands the harlot
Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow
Of my true mother.
What is the cause, Laertes,
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person:
There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
That treason can but peep to what it would,
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
Speak, man.
Where is my father?
Dead.
But not by him.
Let him demand his fill.
How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
That both the worlds I give to negligence,
Let come what comes; only I'll be revenged
Most thoroughly for my father.
Who shall stay you?
My will, not all the world:
And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
They shall go far with little.
Good Laertes,
If you desire to know the certainty
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
Winner and loser?
None but his enemies.
Will you know them then?
To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms;
And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
Repast them with my blood.
Why, now you speak
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
And am most sensible in grief for it,
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
As day does to your eye.
Danes
[Within] Let her come in.
How now! what noise is that?
Re-enter 
O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt,
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight,
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
O heavens! is't possible, a young maid's wits
Should be as moral as an old man's life?
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
It sends some precious instance of itself
After the thing it loves.
[Sings]
They bore him barefaced on the bier;
Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny;
And in his grave rain'd many a tear:--
Fare you well, my dove!
Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
It could not move thus.
[Sings]
You must sing a-down a-down,
An you call him a-down-a.
O, how the wheel becomes it! It is the false
steward, that stole his master's daughter.
This nothing's more than matter.
There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; pray,
love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
A document in madness, thoughts and remembrance fitted.
There's fennel for you, and columbines: there's rue
for you; and here's some for me: we may call it
herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
a difference. There's a daisy: I would give you
some violets, but they withered all when my father
died: they say he made a good end,--
Sings
For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
[Sings]
And will he not come again?
And will he not come again?
No, no, he is dead:
Go to thy death-bed:
He never will come again.
His beard was as white as snow,
All flaxen was his poll:
He is gone, he is gone,
And we cast away moan:
God ha' mercy on his soul!
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God be wi' ye.
Do you see this, O God?
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will.
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me:
If by direct or by collateral hand
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
To give it due content.
Let this be so;
His means of death, his obscure funeral--
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
No noble rite nor formal ostentation--
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
That I must call't in question.
So you shall;
And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
I pray you, go with me.
Exeunt
What are they that would speak with me?
Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.
Let them come in.
I do not know from what part of the world
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
God bless you, sir.
Let him bless thee too.
He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for
you, sir; it comes from the ambassador that was
bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am
let to know it is.
[Reads] 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlooked
this, give these fellows some means to the king:
they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us
chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
a compelled valour, and in the grapple I boarded
them: on the instant they got clear of our ship; so
I alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with
me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
did; I am to do a good turn for them. Let the king
have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I
have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of
the matter. These good fellows will bring thee
where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their
course for England: of them I have much to tell
thee. Farewell.
'He that thou knowest thine, .'
Come, I will make you way for these your letters;
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
To him from whom you brought them.
Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal,
And you must put me in your heart for friend,
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
That he which hath your noble father slain
Pursued my life.
It well appears: but tell me
Why you proceeded not against these feats,
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
You mainly were stirr'd up.
O, for two special reasons;
Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself--
My virtue or my plague, be it either which--
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul,
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
I could not but by her. The other motive,
Why to a public count I might not go,
Is the great love the general gender bear him;
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows,
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
Would have reverted to my bow again,
And not where I had aim'd them.
And so have I a noble father lost;
A sister driven into desperate terms,
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
For her perfections: but my revenge will come.
Break not your sleeps for that: you must not think
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
That we can let our beard be shook with danger
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
I loved your father, and we love ourself;
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine--
How now! what news?
Messenger
Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
This to your majesty; this to the queen.
From Hamlet! who brought them?
Messenger
Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not:
They were given me by Claudio; he received them
Of him that brought them.
Laertes, you shall hear them. Leave us.
'High and mighty, You shall know I am set naked on
your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your
pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
and more strange return. '.'
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
Know you the hand?
'Tis Hamlets character. 'Naked!
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
Can you advise me?
I'm lost in it, my lord. But let him come;
It warms the very sickness in my heart,
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
'Thus didest thou.'
If it be so, Laertes--
As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
Will you be ruled by me?
Ay, my lord;
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
To thine own peace. If he be now return'd,
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
No more to undertake it, I will work him
To an exploit, now ripe in my device,
Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
But even his mother shall uncharge the practise
And call it accident.
My lord, I will be ruled;
The rather, if you could devise it so
That I might be the organ.
It falls right.
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
Did not together pluck such envy from him
As did that one, and that, in my regard,
Of the unworthiest siege.
What part is that, my lord?
A very riband in the cap of youth,
Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
The light and careless livery that it wears
Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
I've seen myself, and served against, the French,
And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
Had witchcraft in't; he grew unto his seat;
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
Come short of what he did.
A Norman was't?
A Norman.
Upon my life, Lamond.
The very same.
I know him well: he is the brooch indeed
And gem of all the nation.
He made confession of you,
And gave you such a masterly report
For art and exercise in your defence
And for your rapier most especially,
That he cried out, 'twould be a sight indeed,
If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation,
He swore, had had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
Your sudden coming o'er, to play with him.
Now, out of this,--
What out of this, my lord?
Laertes, was your father dear to you?
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
A face without a heart?
Why ask you this?
Not that I think you did not love your father;
But that I know love is begun by time;
And that I see, in passages of proof,
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
There lives within the very flame of love
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
Dies in his own too much: that we would do
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
And hath abatements and delays as many
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
That hurts by easing. But, to the quick o' the ulcer:--
Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake,
To show yourself your father's son in deed
More than in words?
To cut his throat i' the church.
No place, indeed, should murder sanctuarize;
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Will you do this, keep close within your chamber.
Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
And set a double varnish on the fame
The Frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together
And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
Most generous and free from all contriving,
Will not peruse the foils; so that, with ease,
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
A sword unbated, and in a pass of practise
Requite him for your father.
I will do't:
And, for that purpose, I'll anoint my sword.
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Collected from all simples that have virtue
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
That is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
It may be death.
Let's further think of this;
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
And that our drift look through our bad performance,
'Twere better not assay'd: therefore this project
Should have a back or second, that might hold,
If this should blast in proof. Soft! let me see:
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings: I ha't.
When in your motion you are hot and dry--
As make your bouts more violent to that end--
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared him
A chalice for the nonce, whereon but sipping,
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
Our purpose may hold there.
How now, sweet queen!
One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
So fast they follow; your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
Drown'd! O, where?
There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
There with fantastic garlands did she come
Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them:
There, on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds
Clambering to hang, an envious sliver broke;
When down her weedy trophies and herself
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up:
Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes;
As one incapable of her own distress,
Or like a creature native and indued
Unto that element: but long it could not be
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
To muddy death.
Alas, then, she is drown'd?
Drown'd, drown'd.
Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord:
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze,
But that this folly douts it.
Let's follow, Gertrude:
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Therefore let's follow.
Exeunt
Is she to be buried in Christian burial that
wilfully seeks her own salvation?
Second Clown
I tell thee she is: and therefore make her grave
straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it
Christian burial.
How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her
own defence?
Why, 'tis found so.
It must be 'se offendendo;' it cannot be else. For
here lies the point: if I drown myself wittingly,
it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
is, to act, to do, to perform: argal, she drowned
herself wittingly.
Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--
Give me leave. Here lies the water; good: here
stands the man; good; if the man go to this water,
and drown himself, it is, will he, nill he, he
goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
and drown him, he drowns not himself: argal, he
that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
But is this law?
Ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been
a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
Christian burial.
Why, there thou say'st: and the more pity that
great folk should have countenance in this world to
drown or hang themselves, more than their even
Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
gentleman but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers:
they hold up Adam's profession.
Was he a gentleman?
He was the first that ever bore arms.
Why, he had none.
What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the
Scripture? The Scripture says 'Adam digged:'
could he dig without arms? I'll put another
question to thee: if thou answerest me not to the
purpose, confess thyself-- 
Go to.
What is he that builds stronger than either the
mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a
thousand tenants.
I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows
does well; but how does it well? it does well to
those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
gallows is built stronger than the church: argal,
the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.
'Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or
a carpenter?'
Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
Marry, now I can tell.
To't.
Mass, I cannot tell.
Enter  and , at a distance
Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull
ass will not mend his pace with beating; and, when
you are asked this question next, say 'a
grave-maker: 'the houses that he makes last till
doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan: fetch me a
stoup of liquor.
He digs and sings
In youth, when I did love, did love,
Methought it was very sweet,
To contract, O, the time, for, ah, my behove,
O, methought, there was nothing meet.
Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he
sings at grave-making?
Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
'Tis e'en so: the hand of little employment hath
the daintier sense.
[Sings]
But age, with his stealing steps,
Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
And hath shipped me intil the land,
As if I had never been such.
Throws up a skull
That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once:
how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
Cain's jaw-bone, that did the first murder! It
might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
now o'er-reaches; one that would circumvent God,
might it not?
It might, my lord.
Or of a courtier; which could say 'Good morrow,
sweet lord! How dost thou, good lord?' This might
be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord
such-a-one's horse, when he meant to beg it; might it not?
Ay, my lord.
Why, e'en so: and now my Lady Worm's; chapless, and
knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
here's fine revolution, an we had the trick to
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
but to play at loggats with 'em? mine ache to think on't.
[Sings]
A pick-axe, and a spade, a spade,
For and a shrouding sheet:
O, a pit of clay for to be made
For such a guest is meet.
Throws up another skull
There's another: why may not that be the skull of a
lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his quillets,
his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the
sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of
his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be
in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
his recoveries: is this the fine of his fines, and
the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him
no more of his purchases, and double ones too, than
the length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The
very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in
this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
Not a jot more, my lord.
Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
Ay, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance
in that. I will speak to this fellow. Whose
grave's this, sirrah?
Mine, sir.
Sings
O, a pit of clay for to be made
For such a guest is meet.
I think it be thine, indeed; for thou liest in't.
You lie out on't, sir, and therefore it is not
yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
'Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine:
'tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away gain, from me to
you.
What man dost thou dig it for?
For no man, sir.
What woman, then?
For none, neither.
Who is to be buried in't?
One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
How absolute the knave is! we must speak by the
card, or equivocation will undo us. By the Lord,
Horatio, these three years I have taken a note of
it; the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
gaffs his kibe. How long hast thou been a
grave-maker?
Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day
that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
How long is that since?
Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it
was the very day that young Hamlet was born; he that
is mad, and sent into England.
Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits
there; or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.
Why?
'Twill, a not be seen in him there; there the men
are as mad as he.
How came he mad?
Very strangely, they say.
How strangely?
Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Upon what ground?
Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
and boy, thirty years.
How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
I' faith, if he be not rotten before he die--as we
have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year
or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
Why he more than another?
Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
he will keep out water a great while; and your water
is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body.
Here's a skull now; this skull has lain in the earth
three and twenty years.
Whose was it?
A whoreson mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?
Nay, I know not.
A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! a' poured a
flagon of Rhenish on my head once. This same skull,
sir, was Yorick's skull, the king's jester.
This?
E'en that.
Let me see.
Takes the skull
Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how
abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen?
Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
come; make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
me one thing.
What's that, my lord?
Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i'
the earth?
E'en so.
And smelt so? pah!
Puts down the skull
E'en so, my lord.
To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may
not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander,
till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with
modesty enough, and likelihood to lead it: as
thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is earth; of
earth we make loam; and why of that loam, whereto he
was converted, might they not stop a beer-barrel?
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away:
O, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw!
But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king.
The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
The corse they follow did with desperate hand
Fordo its own life: 'twas of some estate.
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Retiring with 
What ceremony else?
That is Laertes,
A very noble youth: mark.
What ceremony else?
First Priest
Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
She should in ground unsanctified have lodged
Till the last trumpet: for charitable prayers,
Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her;
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
Her maiden strewments and the bringing home
Of bell and burial.
Must there no more be done?
First Priest
No more be done:
We should profane the service of the dead
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
As to peace-parted souls.
Lay her i' the earth:
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
A ministering angel shall my sister be,
When thou liest howling.
What, the fair Ophelia!
Sweets to the sweet: farewell!
Scattering flowers
I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
And not have strew'd thy grave.
O, treble woe
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head,
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Deprived thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
Leaps into the grave
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
To o'ertop old Pelion, or the skyish head
Of blue Olympus.
[Advancing] What is he whose grief
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Hamlet the Dane.
Leaps into the grave
The devil take thy soul!
Grappling with him
Thou pray'st not well.
I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat;
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
Yet have I something in me dangerous,
Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
Pluck them asunder.
Hamlet, Hamlet!
All
Gentlemen,--
Good my lord, be quiet.
The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave
Why I will fight with him upon this theme
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
O my son, what theme?
I loved Ophelia: forty thousand brothers
Could not, with all their quantity of love,
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
O, he is mad, Laertes.
For love of God, forbear him.
'Swounds, show me what thou'lt do:
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Woo't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
I'll rant as well as thou.
This is mere madness:
And thus awhile the fit will work on him;
Anon, as patient as the female dove,
When that her golden couplets are disclosed,
His silence will sit drooping.
Hear you, sir;
What is the reason that you use me thus?
I loved you ever: but it is no matter;
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
I pray you, good Horatio, wait upon him.
Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech;
We'll put the matter to the present push.
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.
This grave shall have a living monument:
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
So much for this, sir: now shall you see the other;
You do remember all the circumstance?
Remember it, my lord?
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting,
That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly,
And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
When our deep plots do pall: and that should teach us
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Rough-hew them how we will,--
That is most certain.
Up from my cabin,
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
Groped I to find out them; had my desire.
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
To mine own room again; making so bold,
My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,--
O royal knavery!--an exact command,
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
No, not to stay the grinding of the axe,
My head should be struck off.
Is't possible?
Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
I beseech you.
Being thus be-netted round with villanies,--
Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
They had begun the play--I sat me down,
Devised a new commission, wrote it fair:
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
A baseness to write fair and labour'd much
How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
The effect of what I wrote?
Ay, good my lord.
An earnest conjuration from the king,
As England was his faithful tributary,
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
And many such-like 'As'es of great charge,
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
Without debatement further, more or less,
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
Not shriving-time allow'd.
How was this seal'd?
Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
I had my father's signet in my purse,
Which was the model of that Danish seal;
Folded the writ up in form of the other,
Subscribed it, gave't the impression, placed it safely,
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Thou know'st already.
Why, man, they did make love to this employment;
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
Does by their own insinuation grow:
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Of mighty opposites.
Why, what a king is this!
Does it not, think'st thee, stand me now upon--
He that hath kill'd my king and whored my mother,
Popp'd in between the election and my hopes,
Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience,
To quit him with this arm? and is't not to be damn'd,
To let this canker of our nature come
In further evil?
It must be shortly known to him from England
What is the issue of the business there.
It will be short: the interim is mine;
And a man's life's no more than to say 'One.'
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
That to Laertes I forgot myself;
For, by the image of my cause, I see
The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
Into a towering passion.
Peace! who comes here?
Enter 
Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
I humbly thank you, sir. Dost know this water-fly?
No, my good lord.
Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to
know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
the king's mess: 'tis a chough; but, as I say,
spacious in the possession of dirt.
Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I
should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.
I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is
northerly
It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my
complexion.
Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry,--as
'twere,--I cannot tell how. But, my lord, his
majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a
great wager on your head: sir, this is the matter,--
I beseech you, remember--
moves him to put on his hat
Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith.
Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes; believe
me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
differences, of very soft society and great showing:
indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or
calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
continent of what part a gentleman would see.
Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you;
though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of
great article; and his infusion of such dearth and
rareness, as, to make true diction of him, his
semblable is his mirror; and who else would trace
him, his umbrage, nothing more.
Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
The concernancy, sir? why do we wrap the gentleman
in our more rawer breath?
Sir?
Is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
You will do't, sir, really.
What imports the nomination of this gentleman?
Of Laertes?
His purse is empty already; all's golden words are spent.
Of him, sir.
I know you are not ignorant--
I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did,
it would not much approve me. Well, sir?
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is--
I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with
him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
know himself.
I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation
laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
What's his weapon?
Rapier and dagger.
That's two of his weapons: but, well.
The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
horses: against the which he has imponed, as I take
it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the
carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages,
and of very liberal conceit.
What call you the carriages?
I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.
The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
The phrase would be more german to the matter, if we
could carry cannon by our sides: I would it might
be hangers till then. But, on: six Barbary horses
against six French swords, their assigns, and three
liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
against the Danish. Why is this 'imponed,' as you call it?
The king, sir, hath laid, that in a dozen passes
between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
three hits: he hath laid on twelve for nine; and it
would come to immediate trial, if your lordship
would vouchsafe the answer.
How if I answer 'no'?
I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his
majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
king hold his purpose, I will win for him an I can;
if not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
Shall I re-deliver you e'en so?
To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.
I commend my duty to your lordship.
Yours, yours.
He does well to commend it himself; there are no
tongues else for's turn.
This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
He did comply with his dug, before he sucked it.
Thus has he--and many more of the same bevy that I
know the dressy age dotes on--only got the tune of
the time and outward habit of encounter; a kind of
yesty collection, which carries them through and
through the most fond and winnowed opinions; and do
but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
Enter a 
My lord, his majesty commended him to you by young
Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in
the hall: he sends to know if your pleasure hold to
play with Laertes, or that you will take longer time.
I am constant to my purpose; they follow the king's
pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now
or whensoever, provided I be so able as now.
The king and queen and all are coming down.
In happy time.
The queen desires you to use some gentle
entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
She well instructs me.
You will lose this wager, my lord.
I do not think so: since he went into France, I
have been in continual practise: I shall win at the
odds. But thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
about my heart: but it is no matter.
Nay, good my lord,--
It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of
gain-giving, as would perhaps trouble a woman.
If your mind dislike any thing, obey it: I will
forestall their repair hither, and say you are not
fit.
Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special
providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
'tis not to come; if it be not to come, it will be
now; if it be not now, yet it will come: the
readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he
leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
Give me your pardon, sir: I've done you wrong;
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
This presence knows,
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
With sore distraction. What I have done,
That might your nature, honour and exception
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
Sir, in this audience,
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house,
And hurt my brother.
I am satisfied in nature,
Whose motive, in this case, should stir me most
To my revenge: but in my terms of honour
I stand aloof; and will no reconcilement,
Till by some elder masters, of known honour,
I have a voice and precedent of peace,
To keep my name ungored. But till that time,
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
And will not wrong it.
I embrace it freely;
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
Give us the foils. Come on.
Come, one for me.
I'll be your foil, Laertes: in mine ignorance
Your skill shall, like a star i' the darkest night,
Stick fiery off indeed.
You mock me, sir.
No, by this hand.
Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
You know the wager?
Very well, my lord
Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
I do not fear it; I have seen you both:
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
This is too heavy, let me see another.
This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
They prepare to play
Ay, my good lord.
Set me the stoops of wine upon that table.
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire:
The king shall drink to Hamlet's better breath;
And in the cup an union shall he throw,
Richer than that which four successive kings
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth,
'Now the king dunks to Hamlet.' Come, begin:
And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
Come on, sir.
Come, my lord.
They play
One.
No.
Judgment.
A hit, a very palpable hit.
Well; again.
Stay; give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
Here's to thy health.
Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within
Give him the cup.
I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile. Come.
They play
Another hit; what say you?
A touch, a touch, I do confess.
Our son shall win.
He's fat, and scant of breath.
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows;
The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
Good madam!
Gertrude, do not drink.
I will, my lord; I pray you, pardon me.
[Aside] It is the poison'd cup: it is too late.
I dare not drink yet, madam; by and by.
Come, let me wipe thy face.
My lord, I'll hit him now.
I do not think't.
[Aside] And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally;
I pray you, pass with your best violence;
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
Say you so? come on.
They play
Nothing, neither way.
Have at you now!
Part them; they are incensed.
Nay, come, again.
Look to the queen there, ho!
They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
How is't, Laertes?
Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric;
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
How does the queen?
She swounds to see them bleed.
No, no, the drink, the drink,--O my dear Hamlet,--
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.
Dies
O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
Treachery! Seek it out.
It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
No medicine in the world can do thee good;
In thee there is not half an hour of life;
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
Unbated and envenom'd: the foul practise
Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
I can no more: the king, the king's to blame.
The point!--envenom'd too!
Then, venom, to thy work.
Stabs 
Treason! treason!
O, yet defend me, friends; I am but hurt.
Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane,
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
Follow my mother.
He is justly served;
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet:
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
Nor thine on me.
Dies
Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
To the unsatisfied.
Never believe it:
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane:
Here's yet some liquor left.
As thou'rt a man,
Give me the cup: let go; by heaven, I'll have't.
O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
To tell my story.
March afar off, and shot within
What warlike noise is this?
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
To the ambassadors of England gives
This warlike volley.
O, I die, Horatio;
The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
I cannot live to hear the news from England;
But I do prophesy the election lights
On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
So tell him, with the occurrents, more and less,
Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
Dies
Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
Why does the drum come hither?
March within
Where is this sight?
What is it ye would see?
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
That thou so many princes at a shot
So bloodily hast struck?
First Ambassador
The sight is dismal;
And our affairs from England come too late:
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
Where should we have our thanks?
Not from his mouth,
Had it the ability of life to thank you:
He never gave commandment for their death.
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
Are here arrived give order that these bodies
High on a stage be placed to the view;
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
How these things came about: so shall you hear
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
Fall'n on the inventors' reads: all this can I
Truly deliver.
Let us haste to hear it,
And call the noblest to the audience.
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more;
But let this same be presently perform'd,
Even while men's minds are wild; lest more mischance
On plots and errors, happen.
Let four captains
Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
For he was likely, had he been put on,
To have proved most royally: and, for his passage,
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
Speak loudly for him.
Take up the bodies: such a sight as this
Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
Go, bid the soldiers shoot. 
